
1. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 14;113(24):E3403-12. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1603269113. Epub 2016 Jun 2.

Structural basis for concerted recruitment and activation of IRF-3 by innate
immune adaptor proteins.

Zhao B(1), Shu C(2), Gao X(3), Sankaran B(4), Du F(1), Shelton CL(5), Herr AB(5),
Ji JY(3), Li P(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics, Texas A&M University, College
Station, TX 77843; (2)Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics, Texas A&M
University, College Station, TX 77843; pingwei@tamu.edu cshu2005@hotmail.com.
(3)Department of Molecular and Cellular Medicine, College of Medicine, Texas A&M 
University Health Science Center, College Station, TX 77843; (4)Berkeley Center
for Structural Biology, Physical Biosciences Division, Lawrence Berkeley
Laboratory, Berkeley, CA 94720; (5)Division of Immunobiology, Center for Systems 
Immunology, Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center, Cincinnati, OH 45229; 
Division of Infectious Diseases, Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center,
Cincinnati, OH 45229.

Type I IFNs are key cytokines mediating innate antiviral immunity. cGMP-AMP
synthase, ritinoic acid-inducible protein 1 (RIG-I)-like receptors, and Toll-like
receptors recognize microbial double-stranded (ds)DNA, dsRNA, and LPS to induce
the expression of type I IFNs. These signaling pathways converge at the
recruitment and activation of the transcription factor IRF-3 (IFN regulatory
factor 3). The adaptor proteins STING (stimulator of IFN genes), MAVS
(mitochondrial antiviral signaling), and TRIF (TIR domain-containing adaptor
inducing IFN-β) mediate the recruitment of IRF-3 through a conserved pLxIS motif.
Here we show that the pLxIS motif of phosphorylated STING, MAVS, and TRIF binds
to IRF-3 in a similar manner, whereas residues upstream of the motif confer
specificity. The structure of the IRF-3 phosphomimetic mutant S386/396E bound to 
the cAMP response element binding protein (CREB)-binding protein reveals that the
pLxIS motif also mediates IRF-3 dimerization and activation. Moreover, rotavirus 
NSP1 (nonstructural protein 1) employs a pLxIS motif to target IRF-3 for
degradation, but phosphorylation of NSP1 is not required for its activity. These 
results suggest a concerted mechanism for the recruitment and activation of IRF-3
that can be subverted by viral proteins to evade innate immune responses.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1603269113 
PMCID: PMC4914169
PMID: 27302953  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 14;113(24):E3365-74. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1524865113. Epub 2016 Jun 2.

Delineating ecologically significant taxonomic units from global patterns of
marine picocyanobacteria.

Farrant GK(1), Doré H(1), Cornejo-Castillo FM(2), Partensky F(1), Ratin M(1),
Ostrowski M(3), Pitt FD(4), Wincker P(5), Scanlan DJ(4), Iudicone D(6), Acinas
SG(2), Garczarek L(7).

Author information: 
(1)Sorbonne Universités, Université Paris 06, CNRS, UMR 7144, Station Biologique,
CS 90074 Roscoff, France; (2)Department of Marine Biology and Oceanography,
Institute of Marine Sciences (ICM), Consejo Superior de Investigaciones
Científicas (CSIC), Barcelona ES-08003, Spain; (3)Department of Chemistry and
Biomolecular Sciences, Macquarie University, Sydney, NSW 2109, Australia;
(4)School of Life Sciences, University of Warwick, Coventry CV4 7AL, United
Kingdom; (5)Commissariat à l'Energie Atomique et aux Energies Alternatives (CEA),
Institut de Génomique, Genoscope, 91057 Evry, France; (6)Stazione Zoologica Anton
Dohrn, 80121 Naples, Italy. (7)Sorbonne Universités, Université Paris 06, CNRS,
UMR 7144, Station Biologique, CS 90074 Roscoff, France;
laurence.garczarek@sb-roscoff.fr.

Prochlorococcus and Synechococcus are the two most abundant and widespread
phytoplankton in the global ocean. To better understand the factors controlling
their biogeography, a reference database of the high-resolution taxonomic marker 
petB, encoding cytochrome b6, was used to recruit reads out of 109 metagenomes
from the Tara Oceans expedition. An unsuspected novel genetic diversity was
unveiled within both genera, even for the most abundant and well-characterized
clades, and 136 divergent petB sequences were successfully assembled from
metagenomic reads, significantly enriching the reference database. We then
defined Ecologically Significant Taxonomic Units (ESTUs)-that is, organisms
belonging to the same clade and occupying a common oceanic niche. Three major
ESTU assemblages were identified along the cruise transect for Prochlorococcus
and eight for Synechococcus Although Prochlorococcus HLIIIA and HLIVA ESTUs
codominated in iron-depleted areas of the Pacific Ocean, CRD1 and the yet-to-be
cultured EnvB were the prevalent Synechococcus clades in this area, with three
different CRD1 and EnvB ESTUs occupying distinct ecological niches with regard to
iron availability and temperature. Sharp community shifts were also observed over
short geographic distances-for example, around the Marquesas Islands or between
southern Indian and Atlantic Oceans-pointing to a tight correlation between ESTU 
assemblages and specific physico-chemical parameters. Together, this study
demonstrates that there is a previously overlooked, ecologically meaningful,
fine-scale diversity within some currently defined picocyanobacterial ecotypes,
bringing novel insights into the ecology, diversity, and biology of the two most 
abundant phototrophs on Earth.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1524865113 
PMCID: PMC4914166
PMID: 27302952  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


3. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 14;113(24):6611-6. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1600525113. Epub 2016 Jun 2.

Valence tautomerism in synthetic models of cytochrome P450.

Das PK(1), Samanta S(1), McQuarters AB(2), Lehnert N(3), Dey A(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Inorganic Chemistry, Indian Association for the Cultivation of
Science, Kolkata 700032, India; (2)Department of Chemistry, University of
Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI 48109. (3)Department of Chemistry, University of
Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI 48109 icad@iacs.res.in lehnertn@umich.edu. (4)Department 
of Inorganic Chemistry, Indian Association for the Cultivation of Science,
Kolkata 700032, India; icad@iacs.res.in lehnertn@umich.edu.

CytP450s have a cysteine-bound heme cofactor that, in its as-isolated resting
(oxidized) form, can be conclusively described as a ferric thiolate species.
Unlike the native enzyme, most synthetic thiolate-bound ferric porphyrins are
unstable in air unless the axial thiolate ligand is sterically protected.
Spectroscopic investigations on a series of synthetic mimics of cytP450 indicate 
that a thiolate-bound ferric porphyrin coexists in organic solutions at room
temperature (RT) with a thiyl-radical bound ferrous porphyrin, i.e., its valence 
tautomer. The ferric thiolate state is favored by greater enthalpy and is air
stable. The ferrous thiyl state is favored by entropy, populates at RT, and
degrades in air. These ground states can be reversibly interchanged at RT by the 
addition or removal of water to the apolar medium. It is concluded that hydrogen 
bonding and local electrostatics protect the resting oxidized cytP450 active site
from degradation in air by stabilizing the ferric thiolate ground state in
contrast to its synthetic analogs.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1600525113 
PMCID: PMC4914151
PMID: 27302948  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


4. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 21;113(25):6811-2. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1607004113. Epub 2016 Jun 10.

Bacterial spore coat protein kinases: A new twist to an old story.

Scott JD(1), Newton AC(2).

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Department of Pharmacology, University of
Washington, Seattle, WA 98195; scottjdw@uw.edu. (2)Department of Pharmacology,
University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, CA 92093.

Comment in
    Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 21;113(25):E3482-91.

Comment on
    Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 21;113(25):E3482-91.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1607004113 
PMCID: PMC4922189
PMID: 27286827  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


5. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 21;113(25):6821-3. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1607008113. Epub 2016 Jun 10.

VSG overcomes an early barrier to survival of African trypanosomes in tsetse
flies.

Kamhawi S(1), Coutinho-Abreu IV(2).

Author information: 
(1)Vector Molecular Biology Section, Laboratory of Malaria and Vector Research,
National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, National Institutes of
Health, Rockville, MD 20852 skamhawi@niaid.nih.gov. (2)Vector Molecular Biology
Section, Laboratory of Malaria and Vector Research, National Institute of Allergy
and Infectious Diseases, National Institutes of Health, Rockville, MD 20852.

Comment on
    Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 21;113(25):6961-6.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1607008113 
PMCID: PMC4922182
PMID: 27286826  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


6. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 21;113(25):6813-5. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1607007113. Epub 2016 Jun 10.

IFN-γ protects hepatocytes against Plasmodium vivax infection via LAP-like
degradation of sporozoites.

Lelliott PM(1), Coban C(2).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Malaria Immunology, Immunology Frontier Research Center, Osaka
University, Osaka 565-0871, Japan. (2)Laboratory of Malaria Immunology,
Immunology Frontier Research Center, Osaka University, Osaka 565-0871, Japan
ccoban@biken.osaka-u.ac.jp.

Comment in
    Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 21;113(25):E3519-28.

Comment on
    Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 21;113(25):E3519-28.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1607007113 
PMCID: PMC4922169
PMID: 27286823  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


7. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 21;113(25):6816-8. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1606596113. Epub 2016 Jun 10.

Thank your intelligent mother for your big brain.

Dunsworth HM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Sociology and Anthropology, University of Rhode Island,
Kingston, RI 02881 holly_dunsworth@uri.edu.

Comment in
    Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 21;113(25):6874-9.

Comment on
    Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 21;113(25):6874-9.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1606596113 
PMCID: PMC4922176
PMID: 27286822  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


8. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 7;113(23):6388-96. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1525200113.

Ecological consequences of human niche construction: Examining long-term
anthropogenic shaping of global species distributions.

Boivin NL(1), Zeder MA(2), Fuller DQ(3), Crowther A(4), Larson G(5), Erlandson
JM(6), Denham T(7), Petraglia MD(8).

Author information: 
(1)School of Archaeology, University of Oxford, Oxford OX1 2PG, United Kingdom;
Max Planck Institute for the Science of Human History, Jena D-07743, Germany;
boivin@shh.mpg.de. (2)Program in Human Ecology and Archaeobiology, Department of 
Anthropology, National Museum of Natural History, Smithsonian Institution,
Washington, DC 20013; External Faculty, Santa Fe Institute, Santa Fe, NM 87501;
(3)Institute of Archaeology, University College London, London WC1H 0PY, United
Kingdom; (4)School of Social Science, The University of Queensland, Brisbane, QLD
4072, Australia; (5)Palaeogenomics & Bio-Archaeology Research Network, School of 
Archaeology, University of Oxford, Oxford OX1 3QY, United Kingdom; (6)Museum of
Natural and Cultural History, University of Oregon, Eugene, OR 97403-1224;
(7)School of Archaeology and Anthropology, College of Arts and Social Sciences,
Australian National University, Canberra, ACT 0200, Australia. (8)School of
Archaeology, University of Oxford, Oxford OX1 2PG, United Kingdom;

The exhibition of increasingly intensive and complex niche construction behaviors
through time is a key feature of human evolution, culminating in the advanced
capacity for ecosystem engineering exhibited by Homo sapiens A crucial outcome of
such behaviors has been the dramatic reshaping of the global biosphere, a
transformation whose early origins are increasingly apparent from cumulative
archaeological and paleoecological datasets. Such data suggest that, by the Late 
Pleistocene, humans had begun to engage in activities that have led to
alterations in the distributions of a vast array of species across most, if not
all, taxonomic groups. Changes to biodiversity have included extinctions,
extirpations, and shifts in species composition, diversity, and community
structure. We outline key examples of these changes, highlighting findings from
the study of new datasets, like ancient DNA (aDNA), stable isotopes, and
microfossils, as well as the application of new statistical and computational
methods to datasets that have accumulated significantly in recent decades. We
focus on four major phases that witnessed broad anthropogenic alterations to
biodiversity-the Late Pleistocene global human expansion, the Neolithic spread of
agriculture, the era of island colonization, and the emergence of early urbanized
societies and commercial networks. Archaeological evidence documents millennia of
anthropogenic transformations that have created novel ecosystems around the
world. This record has implications for ecological and evolutionary research,
conservation strategies, and the maintenance of ecosystem services, pointing to a
significant need for broader cross-disciplinary engagement between archaeology
and the biological and environmental sciences.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1525200113 
PMCID: PMC4988612
PMID: 27274046  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


9. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 7;113(23):6380-7. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1524306113. Epub 2016 Jun 6.

Ancient DNA and human history.

Slatkin M(1), Racimo F(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Integrative Biology, University of California, Berkeley, CA
94720-3140 slatkin@berkeley.edu. (2)Department of Integrative Biology, University
of California, Berkeley, CA 94720-3140.

We review studies of genomic data obtained by sequencing hominin fossils with
particular emphasis on the unique information that ancient DNA (aDNA) can provide
about the demographic history of humans and our closest relatives. We concentrate
on nuclear genomic sequences that have been published in the past few years. In
many cases, particularly in the Arctic, the Americas, and Europe, aDNA has
revealed historical demographic patterns in a way that could not be resolved by
analyzing present-day genomes alone. Ancient DNA from archaic hominins has
revealed a rich history of admixture between early modern humans, Neanderthals,
and Denisovans, and has allowed us to disentangle complex selective processes.
Information from aDNA studies is nowhere near saturation, and we believe that
future aDNA sequences will continue to change our understanding of hominin
history.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1524306113 
PMCID: PMC4988579
PMID: 27274045  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


10. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 7;113(23):6372-9. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1521269113.

Neandertals revised.

Roebroeks W(1), Soressi M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Archaeology, Leiden University, 2300 RA, Leiden, The Netherlands
W.Roebroeks@arch.leidenuniv.nl. (2)Faculty of Archaeology, Leiden University,
2300 RA, Leiden, The Netherlands.

The last decade has seen a significant growth of our knowledge of the
Neandertals, a population of Pleistocene hunter-gatherers who lived in (western) 
Eurasia between ∼400,000 and 40,000 y ago. Starting from a source population deep
in the Middle Pleistocene, the hundreds of thousands of years of relative
separation between African and Eurasian groups led to the emergence of different 
phenotypes in Late Pleistocene Europe and Africa. Both recently obtained genetic 
evidence and archeological data show that the biological and cultural gaps
between these populations were probably smaller than previously thought. These
data, reviewed here, falsify inferences to the effect that, compared with their
near-modern contemporaries in Africa, Neandertals were outliers in terms of
behavioral complexity. It is only around 40,000 y ago, tens of thousands of years
after anatomically modern humans first left Africa and thousands of years after
documented interbreeding between modern humans, Neandertals and Denisovans, that 
we see major changes in the archeological record, from western Eurasia to
Southeast Asia, e.g., the emergence of representational imagery and the
colonization of arctic areas and of greater Australia (Sahul).

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1521269113 
PMCID: PMC4988603
PMID: 27274044  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


11. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 7;113(23):6364-71. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1521266113.

The Pliocene hominin diversity conundrum: Do more fossils mean less clarity?

Haile-Selassie Y(1), Melillo SM(2), Su DF(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physical Anthropology, Cleveland Museum of Natural History,
Cleveland, OH 44106; Departments of Anthropology, Anatomy, and Cognitive
Sciences, Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, OH 44106;
yhaileselassie@cmnh.org. (2)Department of Human Evolution, Max Planck Institute
for Evolutionary Anthropology, D-04103 Leipzig, Germany; (3)Department of
Paleobotany and Paleoecology, Cleveland Museum of Natural History, Cleveland, OH 
44106.

Recent discoveries of multiple middle Pliocene hominins have raised the
possibility that early hominins were as speciose as later hominins. However,
debates continue to arise around the validity of most of these new taxa, largely 
based on poor preservation of holotype specimens, small sample size, or the lack 
of evidence for ecological diversity. A closer look at the currently available
fossil evidence from Ethiopia, Kenya, and Chad indicate that Australopithecus
afarensis was not the only hominin species during the middle Pliocene, and that
there were other species clearly distinguishable from it by their locomotor
adaptation and diet. Although there is no doubt that the presence of multiple
species during the middle Pliocene opens new windows into our evolutionary past, 
it also complicates our understanding of early hominin taxonomy and phylogenetic 
relationships.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1521266113 
PMCID: PMC4988594
PMID: 27274043  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


12. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 7;113(23):6355-63. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1521267113.

Neogene biomarker record of vegetation change in eastern Africa.

Uno KT(1), Polissar PJ(2), Jackson KE(3), deMenocal PB(4).

Author information: 
(1)Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory of Columbia University, Palisades, NY 10964; 
kevinuno1@gmail.com. (2)Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory of Columbia University, 
Palisades, NY 10964; (3)Department of Geology and Environmental Geosciences,
Lafayette College, Easton, PA 18042; (4)Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory of
Columbia University, Palisades, NY 10964; Department of Earth and Environmental
Sciences, Columbia University, New York, NY 10027.

The evolution of C4 grassland ecosystems in eastern Africa has been intensely
studied because of the potential influence of vegetation on mammalian evolution, 
including that of our own lineage, hominins. Although a handful of sparse
vegetation records exists from middle and early Miocene terrestrial fossil sites,
there is no comprehensive record of vegetation through the Neogene. Here we
present a vegetation record spanning the Neogene and Quaternary Periods that
documents the appearance and subsequent expansion of C4 grasslands in eastern
Africa. Carbon isotope ratios from terrestrial plant wax biomarkers deposited in 
marine sediments indicate constant C3 vegetation from ∼24 Ma to 10 Ma, when C4
grasses first appeared. From this time forward, C4 vegetation increases
monotonically to present, with a coherent signal between marine core sites
located in the Somali Basin and the Red Sea. The response of mammalian herbivores
to the appearance of C4 grasses at 10 Ma is immediate, as evidenced from existing
records of mammalian diets from isotopic analyses of tooth enamel. The expansion 
of C4 vegetation in eastern Africa is broadly mirrored by increasing proportions 
of C4-based foods in hominin diets, beginning at 3.8 Ma in Australopithecus and, 
slightly later, Kenyanthropus This continues into the late Pleistocene in
Paranthropus, whereas Homo maintains a flexible diet. The biomarker vegetation
record suggests the increase in open, C4 grassland ecosystems over the last 10 Ma
may have operated as a selection pressure for traits and behaviors in Homo such
as bipedalism, flexible diets, and complex social structure.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1521267113 
PMCID: PMC4988583
PMID: 27274042  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


13. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 7;113(23):6348-54. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1521270113.

Unraveling the evolution of uniquely human cognition.

MacLean EL(1).

Author information: 
(1)Evolutionary Anthropology, Duke University, Durham, NC 27708; School of
Anthropology, University of Arizona, Tucson, AZ 85719 maclean@duke.edu.

A satisfactory account of human cognitive evolution will explain not only the
psychological mechanisms that make our species unique, but also how, when, and
why these traits evolved. To date, researchers have made substantial progress
toward defining uniquely human aspects of cognition, but considerably less effort
has been devoted to questions about the evolutionary processes through which
these traits have arisen. In this article, I aim to link these complementary aims
by synthesizing recent advances in our understanding of what makes human
cognition unique, with theory and data regarding the processes of cognitive
evolution. I review evidence that uniquely human cognition depends on synergism
between both representational and motivational factors and is unlikely to be
accounted for by changes to any singular cognitive system. I argue that, whereas 
no nonhuman animal possesses the full constellation of traits that define the
human mind, homologies and analogies of critical aspects of human psychology can 
be found in diverse nonhuman taxa. I suggest that phylogenetic approaches to the 
study of animal cognition-which can address questions about the selective
pressures and proximate mechanisms driving cognitive change-have the potential to
yield important insights regarding the processes through which the human
cognitive phenotype evolved.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1521270113 
PMCID: PMC4988573
PMID: 27274041  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


14. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 7;113(23):6345-7. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1606588113.

Issues in human evolution.

Klein RG(1).

Author information: 
(1)Program in Human Biology, Stanford University, Stanford, CA 94305
rklein@stanford.edu.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1606588113 
PMCID: PMC4988588
PMID: 27274040  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


15. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 7;113(23):6322-4. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1607582113.

Opinion: Big data biomedicine offers big higher education opportunities.

Van Horn JD(1).

Author information: 
(1)The Institute for Neuroimaging and Informatics, Keck School of Medicine of
USC, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, CA 90032; Laboratory of
Neuro Imaging, Keck School of Medicine of USC, University of Southern California,
Los Angeles, CA 90032 jvanhorn@usc.edu.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1607582113 
PMCID: PMC4988614
PMID: 27274038  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


16. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 14;113(24):6731-6. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1601537113. Epub 2016 May 31.

Oncogenic mutations in the FBXW7 gene of adult T-cell leukemia patients.

Yeh CH(1), Bellon M(1), Pancewicz-Wojtkiewicz J(1), Nicot C(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Center for Viral Oncology, University of Kansas
Medical Center, Kansas City, KS 66160. (2)Department of Pathology, Center for
Viral Oncology, University of Kansas Medical Center, Kansas City, KS 66160
cnicot@kumc.edu.

Human T-cell leukemia virus type 1 (HTLV-I) is associated with adult T-cell
leukemia (ATL), an aggressive lymphoproliferative disease with a dismal
prognosis. We have previously described the presence of Notch1 activating
mutations and constitutive Notch1 signaling in patients with acute ATL. In this
study, we report a high frequency of F-box and WD repeat domain containing 7
(FBXW7)/hCDC4 mutations within the WD40 substrate-binding domain in 8 of 32 acute
ATL patients (25%). Functionally, ATL FBXW7 mutants lost their ability to
interact with intracellular Notch (NICD), resulting in increased protein
stability and constitutive Notch1 signaling. Consistent with the loss-of-function
found in ATL patients, expression of WT FBXW7 in several patient-derived ATL
lines demonstrated strong tumor-suppressor activity characterized by reduced
proliferation of ATL cells. Remarkably, two FBXW7 mutants, D510E and D527G,
demonstrated oncogenic activity when expressed in the presence of HTLV-I Tax,
mutated p53 R276H, or c-Myc F138C found in human cancers. Transforming activity
was further demonstrated by the ability of the FBXW7 D510E mutant to provide
IL-2-independent growth of Tax-immortalized human T cells and increase the tumor 
formation in a xenograft mouse model of ATL. This study suggests that FBXW7,
normally a tumor suppressor, can act as an oncogene when mutated and may play an 
important role in the pathogenesis of ATL.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1601537113 
PMCID: PMC4914202
PMID: 27247421  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


17. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 7;113(23):6332-4. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1606342113. Epub 2016 May 31.

Fetal grafts for Parkinson's disease: Decades in the making.

Kordower JH(1), Olanow CW(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurological Sciences, Rush University Medical Center, Chicago, 
IL 60612; Van Andel Institute, Grand Rapids, MI 49503; jkordowe@rush.edu.
(2)Department of Neurology, Mt. Sinai School of Medicine, New York, NY 10029;
Department of Neuroscience, Mt. Sinai School of Medicine, New York, NY 10029.

Comment in
    Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 7;113(23 ):6544-9.

Comment on
    Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 7;113(23):6544-9.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1606342113 
PMCID: PMC4988600
PMID: 27247420  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


18. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 14;113(24):E3423-30. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1606022113. Epub 2016 May 31.

Argininosuccinate synthetase regulates hepatic AMPK linking protein catabolism
and ureagenesis to hepatic lipid metabolism.

Madiraju AK(1), Alves T(2), Zhao X(2), Cline GW(2), Zhang D(2), Bhanot S(3),
Samuel VT(4), Kibbey RG(5), Shulman GI(6).

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Yale University School of Medicine, New
Haven, CT 06510; Department of Internal Medicine, Yale University School of
Medicine, New Haven, CT 06510; Department of Cellular and Molecular Physiology,
Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT 06510; (2)Department of
Internal Medicine, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT 06510;
(3)Isis Pharmaceuticals, Carlsbad, CA 92008; (4)Department of Internal Medicine, 
Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT 06510; Veterans Affairs Medical
Center, West Haven, CT 06516. (5)Department of Internal Medicine, Yale University
School of Medicine, New Haven, CT 06510; Department of Cellular and Molecular
Physiology, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT 06510;
richard.kibbey@yale.edu gerald.shulman@yale.edu. (6)Howard Hughes Medical
Institute, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT 06510; Department of
Internal Medicine, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT 06510;
Department of Cellular and Molecular Physiology, Yale University School of
Medicine, New Haven, CT 06510; richard.kibbey@yale.edu gerald.shulman@yale.edu.

A key sensor of cellular energy status, AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK),
interacts allosterically with AMP to maintain an active state. When active, AMPK 
triggers a metabolic switch, decreasing the activity of anabolic pathways and
enhancing catabolic processes such as lipid oxidation to restore the energy
balance. Unlike oxidative tissues, in which AMP is generated from adenylate
kinase during states of high energy demand, the ornithine cycle enzyme
argininosuccinate synthetase (ASS) is a principle site of AMP generation in the
liver. Here we show that ASS regulates hepatic AMPK, revealing a central role for
ureagenesis flux in the regulation of metabolism via AMPK. Treatment of primary
rat hepatocytes with amino acids increased gluconeogenesis and ureagenesis and,
despite nutrient excess, induced both AMPK and acetyl-CoA carboxylase (ACC)
phosphorylation. Antisense oligonucleotide knockdown of hepatic ASS1 expression
in vivo decreased liver AMPK activation, phosphorylation of ACC, and plasma
β-hydroxybutyrate concentrations. Taken together these studies demonstrate that
increased amino acid flux can activate AMPK through increased AMP generated by
ASS, thus providing a novel link between protein catabolism, ureagenesis, and
hepatic lipid metabolism.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1606022113 
PMCID: PMC4914193
PMID: 27247419  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


19. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 14;113(24):6701-6. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1606950113. Epub 2016 May 31.

Multidimensional structure-function relationships in human β-cardiac myosin from 
population-scale genetic variation.

Homburger JR(1), Green EM(2), Caleshu C(3), Sunitha MS(4), Taylor RE(5), Ruppel
KM(6), Metpally RP(7), Colan SD(8), Michels M(9), Day SM(10), Olivotto I(11),
Bustamante CD(12), Dewey FE(13), Ho CY(14), Spudich JA(15), Ashley EA(16).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, CA
94305; (2)MyoKardia, Inc., South San Francisco, CA 94080; (3)Stanford Center for 
Inherited Cardiovascular Disease, Stanford University, Stanford, CA 94305;
(4)Institute for Stem Cell Biology and Regenerative Medicine, Bangalore 560065,
India; (5)Department of Biochemistry, Stanford University School of Medicine,
Stanford, CA 94305; (6)Department of Biochemistry, Stanford University School of 
Medicine, Stanford, CA 94305; Department of Pediatrics (Cardiology), Stanford
University School of Medicine, Stanford, CA 94305; (7)Collaborative
Bioinformatics Lab, Geisinger Clinic, Danville, PA 17822; (8)Department of
Cardiology, Boston Children's Hospital, Boston, MA 02115; (9)Department of
Cardiology, Erasmus Medical Center, 3015 CE Rotterdam, The Netherlands;
(10)Cardiovascular Division, Department of Internal Medicine, University of
Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI 48109; (11)Referral Center for Cardiomyopathies, Careggi 
University Hospital, Florence, Italy 50134; (12)Department of Genetics, Stanford 
University School of Medicine, Stanford, CA 94305; Department of Biomedical Data 
Sciences, Stanford University, Stanford, CA 94305; (13)Regeneron Genetics Center,
Tarrytown, NY 10591; (14)Cardiovascular Division, Brigham and Women's Hospital,
Boston, MA 02115. (15)Institute for Stem Cell Biology and Regenerative Medicine, 
Bangalore 560065, India; Department of Biochemistry, Stanford University School
of Medicine, Stanford, CA 94305; jspudich@stanford.edu euan@stanford.edu.
(16)Department of Genetics, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, CA 
94305; Stanford Center for Inherited Cardiovascular Disease, Stanford University,
Stanford, CA 94305; jspudich@stanford.edu euan@stanford.edu.

Myosin motors are the fundamental force-generating elements of muscle
contraction. Variation in the human β-cardiac myosin heavy chain gene (MYH7) can 
lead to hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM), a heritable disease characterized by
cardiac hypertrophy, heart failure, and sudden cardiac death. How specific myosin
variants alter motor function or clinical expression of disease remains
incompletely understood. Here, we combine structural models of myosin from
multiple stages of its chemomechanical cycle, exome sequencing data from two
population cohorts of 60,706 and 42,930 individuals, and genetic and phenotypic
data from 2,913 patients with HCM to identify regions of disease enrichment
within β-cardiac myosin. We first developed computational models of the human
β-cardiac myosin protein before and after the myosin power stroke. Then, using a 
spatial scan statistic modified to analyze genetic variation in protein 3D space,
we found significant enrichment of disease-associated variants in the converter, 
a kinetic domain that transduces force from the catalytic domain to the lever arm
to accomplish the power stroke. Focusing our analysis on surface-exposed
residues, we identified a larger region significantly enriched for
disease-associated variants that contains both the converter domain and residues 
on a single flat surface on the myosin head described as the myosin mesa.
Notably, patients with HCM with variants in the enriched regions have earlier
disease onset than patients who have HCM with variants elsewhere. Our study
provides a model for integrating protein structure, large-scale genetic
sequencing, and detailed phenotypic data to reveal insight into time-shifted
protein structures and genetic disease.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1606950113 
PMCID: PMC4914177
PMID: 27247418  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


20. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 14;113(24):6791-6. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1601954113. Epub 2016 May 31.

Leveraging abscisic acid receptors for efficient water use in Arabidopsis.

Yang Z(1), Liu J(1), Tischer SV(1), Christmann A(1), Windisch W(2), Schnyder
H(3), Grill E(4).

Author information: 
(1)Lehrstuhl für Botanik, Technische Universität München, 85354 Freising,
Germany; (2)Lehrstuhl für Tierernährung, Technische Universität München, 85354
Freising, Germany; (3)Lehrstuhl für Grünlandlehre, Technische Universität
München, 85354 Freising, Germany. (4)Lehrstuhl für Botanik, Technische
Universität München, 85354 Freising, Germany; grill@wzw.tum.de.

Plant growth requires the influx of atmospheric CO2 through stomatal pores, and
this carbon uptake for photosynthesis is inherently associated with a large
efflux of water vapor. Under water deficit, plants reduce transpiration and are
able to improve carbon for water exchange leading to higher water use efficiency 
(WUE). Whether increased WUE can be achieved without trade-offs in plant growth
is debated. The signals mediating the WUE response under water deficit are not
fully elucidated but involve the phytohormone abscisic acid (ABA). ABA is
perceived by a family of related receptors known to mediate acclimation responses
and to reduce transpiration. We now show that enhanced stimulation of ABA
signaling via distinct ABA receptors can result in plants constitutively growing 
at high WUE in the model species Arabidopsis WUE was assessed by three
independent approaches involving gravimetric analyses, (13)C discrimination
studies of shoots and derived cellulose fractions, and by gas exchange
measurements of whole plants and individual leaves. Plants expressing the ABA
receptors RCAR6/PYL12 combined up to 40% increased WUE with high growth rates,
i.e., are water productive. Water productivity was associated with maintenance of
net carbon assimilation by compensatory increases of leaf CO2 gradients, thereby 
sustaining biomass acquisition. Leaf surface temperatures and growth potentials
of plants growing under well-watered conditions were found to be reliable
indicators for water productivity. The study shows that ABA receptors can be
explored to generate more plant biomass per water transpired, which is a prime
goal for a more sustainable water use in agriculture.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1601954113 
PMCID: PMC4914173
PMID: 27247417  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


21. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 14;113(24):6761-6. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1522577113. Epub 2016 May 31.

The relationship between oscillatory EEG activity and the laminar-specific BOLD
signal.

Scheeringa R(1), Koopmans PJ(2), van Mourik T(3), Jensen O(4), Norris DG(5).

Author information: 
(1)Donders Institute for Brain Cognition and Behaviour, Radboud University,
NL-6500 HB Nijmegen, The Netherlands; rene.scheeringa@donders.ru.nl. (2)Donders
Institute for Brain Cognition and Behaviour, Radboud University, NL-6500 HB
Nijmegen, The Netherlands; Oxford Centre for Functional MRI of the Brain,
University of Oxford, Oxford OX3 9DU, United Kingdom; (3)Donders Institute for
Brain Cognition and Behaviour, Radboud University, NL-6500 HB Nijmegen, The
Netherlands; (4)Donders Institute for Brain Cognition and Behaviour, Radboud
University, NL-6500 HB Nijmegen, The Netherlands; Center for Neuroscience,
Swammerdam Institute for Life Sciences, University of Amsterdam, XH 1098
Amsterdam, The Netherlands; (5)Donders Institute for Brain Cognition and
Behaviour, Radboud University, NL-6500 HB Nijmegen, The Netherlands; Erwin L.
Hahn Institute for Magnetic Resonance Imaging, D-45141 Essen, Germany; MIRA
Institute for Biomedical Technology and Technical Medicine, University of Twente,
NL-7500 AE Enschede, The Netherlands.

Electrophysiological recordings in animals have indicated that visual cortex
γ-band oscillatory activity is predominantly observed in superficial cortical
layers, whereas α- and β-band activity is stronger in deep layers. These rhythms,
as well as the different cortical layers, have also been closely related to
feedforward and feedback streams of information. Recently, it has become possible
to measure laminar activity in humans with high-resolution functional MRI (fMRI).
In this study, we investigated whether these different frequency bands show a
differential relation with the laminar-resolved blood-oxygen level-dependent
(BOLD) signal by combining data from simultaneously recorded EEG and fMRI from
the early visual cortex. Our visual attention paradigm allowed us to investigate 
how variations in strength over trials and variations in the attention effect
over subjects relate to each other in both modalities. We demonstrate that γ-band
EEG power correlates positively with the superficial layers' BOLD signal and that
β-power is negatively correlated to deep layer BOLD and α-power to both deep and 
superficial layer BOLD. These results provide a neurophysiological basis for
human laminar fMRI and link human EEG and high-resolution fMRI to systems-level
neuroscience in animals.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1522577113 
PMCID: PMC4914170
PMID: 27247416  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


22. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 21;113(25):6819-20. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1606665113. Epub 2016 May 31.

Finding the sweet spot for invasion theory.

Lewis MA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Mathematical and Statistical Sciences, University of Alberta,
Edmonton, AB, Canada T6G 2G1 mark.lewis@ualberta.ca.

Comment in
    Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 21;113(25):6922-7.

Comment on
    Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 21;113(25):6922-7.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1606665113 
PMCID: PMC4922165
PMID: 27247415  [PubMed]


23. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 7;113(23):6330-1. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1606109113. Epub 2016 May 31.

How to tune an enhancer.

Barolo S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell and Developmental Biology, University of Michigan Medical
School, Ann Arbor, MI 48109 sbarolo@umich.edu.

Comment in
    Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 7;113(23 ):6508-13.

Comment on
    Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 7;113(23):6508-13.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1606109113 
PMCID: PMC4988584
PMID: 27247414  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


24. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 14;113(24):6659-64. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1517520113. Epub 2016 May 31.

Structural insight into photoactivation of an adenylate cyclase from a
photosynthetic cyanobacterium.

Ohki M(1), Sugiyama K(2), Kawai F(1), Tanaka H(3), Nihei Y(3), Unzai S(1), Takebe
M(4), Matsunaga S(4), Adachi S(5), Shibayama N(6), Zhou Z(7), Koyama R(7),
Ikegaya Y(7), Takahashi T(3), Tame JR(1), Iseki M(8), Park SY(9).

Author information: 
(1)Drug Design Laboratory, Graduate School of Medical Life Science, Yokohama City
University, Tsurumi, Yokohama, 230-0045, Japan; (2)Drug Design Laboratory,
Graduate School of Medical Life Science, Yokohama City University, Tsurumi,
Yokohama, 230-0045, Japan; Drug Design Group, Kanagawa Academy of Science and
Technology, Takatsu, Kawasaki 213-0012, Japan; (3)Faculty of Pharmaceutical
Sciences, Toho University, Funabashi, Chiba, 274-8510, Japan; (4)Central Research
Laboratory, Hamamatsu Photonics K.K., Hamamatsu, Shizuoka 434-8601, Japan;
(5)Institute of Materials Structure Science, High Energy Accelerator Research
Organization (KEK), 1-1 Oho, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 305-0801, Japan; (6)Division of
Biophysics, Department of Physiology, Jichi Medical University, Shimotsuke,
Tochigi 329-0498, Japan; (7)Laboratory of Chemical Pharmacology, Graduate School 
of Pharmaceutical Sciences, The University of Tokyo, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 113-0033,
Japan. (8)Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Toho University, Funabashi, Chiba, 
274-8510, Japan; park@tsurumi.yokohama-cu.ac.jp mineo.iseki@phar.toho-u.ac.jp.
(9)Drug Design Laboratory, Graduate School of Medical Life Science, Yokohama City
University, Tsurumi, Yokohama, 230-0045, Japan; park@tsurumi.yokohama-cu.ac.jp
mineo.iseki@phar.toho-u.ac.jp.

Cyclic-AMP is one of the most important second messengers, regulating many
crucial cellular events in both prokaryotes and eukaryotes, and precise spatial
and temporal control of cAMP levels by light shows great promise as a simple
means of manipulating and studying numerous cell pathways and processes. The
photoactivated adenylate cyclase (PAC) from the photosynthetic cyanobacterium
Oscillatoria acuminata (OaPAC) is a small homodimer eminently suitable for this
task, requiring only a simple flavin chromophore within a blue light using flavin
(BLUF) domain. These domains, one of the most studied types of biological
photoreceptor, respond to blue light and either regulate the activity of an
attached enzyme domain or change its affinity for a repressor protein. BLUF
domains were discovered through studies of photo-induced movements of Euglena
gracilis, a unicellular flagellate, and gene expression in the purple bacterium
Rhodobacter sphaeroides, but the precise details of light activation remain
unknown. Here, we describe crystal structures and the light regulation mechanism 
of the previously undescribed OaPAC, showing a central coiled coil transmits
changes from the light-sensing domains to the active sites with minimal
structural rearrangement. Site-directed mutants show residues essential for
signal transduction over 45 Å across the protein. The use of the protein in
living human cells is demonstrated with cAMP-dependent luciferase, showing a
rapid and stable response to light over many hours and activation cycles. The
structures determined in this study will assist future efforts to create
artificial light-regulated control modules as part of a general optogenetic
toolkit.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1517520113 
PMCID: PMC4914150
PMID: 27247413  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


25. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 14;113(24):6647-52. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1523592113. Epub 2016 May 31.

Assortative mating and differential fertility by phenotype and genotype across
the 20th century.

Conley D(1), Laidley T(2), Belsky DW(3), Fletcher JM(4), Boardman JD(5), Domingue
BW(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Sociology, New York University, New York, NY 10003; School of
Medicine, New York University, New York, NY 10003; conley@nyu.edu
bdomingue@stanford.edu. (2)Department of Sociology, New York University, New
York, NY 10003; (3)Duke University School of Medicine, Durham, NC 27708; Social
Science Research Institute, Durham, NC 27708; (4)LaFollette School of Public
Affairs, University of Wisconsin, Madison, WI 53706; (5)Institute of Behavioral
Science, University of Colorado, Boulder, CO 80309; (6)Graduate School of
Education, Stanford University, Stanford, CA 94305 conley@nyu.edu
bdomingue@stanford.edu.

This study asks two related questions about the shifting landscape of marriage
and reproduction in US society over the course of the last century with respect
to a range of health and behavioral phenotypes and their associated genetic
architecture: (i) Has assortment on measured genetic factors influencing
reproductive and social fitness traits changed over the course of the 20th
century? (ii) Has the genetic covariance between fitness (as measured by total
fertility) and other traits changed over time? The answers to these questions
inform our understanding of how the genetic landscape of American society has
changed over the past century and have implications for population trends. We
show that husbands and wives carry similar loadings for genetic factors related
to education and height. However, the magnitude of this similarity is modest and 
has been fairly consistent over the course of the 20th century. This consistency 
is particularly notable in the case of education, for which phenotypic similarity
among spouses has increased in recent years. Likewise, changing patterns of the
number of children ever born by phenotype are not matched by shifts in
genotype-fertility relationships over time. Taken together, these trends provide 
no evidence that social sorting is becoming increasingly genetic in nature or
that dysgenic dynamics have accelerated.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1523592113 
PMCID: PMC4914190
PMID: 27247411  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


26. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 14;113(24):E3322-31. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1603030113. Epub 2016 May 31.

Enantiomer excesses of rare and common sugar derivatives in carbonaceous
meteorites.

Cooper G(1), Rios AC(2).

Author information: 
(1)Exobiology Branch, Space Science and Astrobiology Division, NASA Ames Research
Center, Moffett Field, CA 94035; george.cooper@nasa.gov. (2)Exobiology Branch,
Space Science and Astrobiology Division, NASA Ames Research Center, Moffett
Field, CA 94035; NASA Postdoctoral Program, Universities Space Research
Association, Columbia, MD 21046.

Biological polymers such as nucleic acids and proteins are constructed of only
one-the d or l-of the two possible nonsuperimposable mirror images (enantiomers) 
of selected organic compounds. However, before the advent of life, it is
generally assumed that chemical reactions produced 50:50 (racemic) mixtures of
enantiomers, as evidenced by common abiotic laboratory syntheses. Carbonaceous
meteorites contain clues to prebiotic chemistry because they preserve a record of
some of the Solar System's earliest (∼4.5 Gy) chemical and physical processes. In
multiple carbonaceous meteorites, we show that both rare and common sugar
monoacids (aldonic acids) contain significant excesses of the d enantiomer,
whereas other (comparable) sugar acids and sugar alcohols are racemic. Although
the proposed origins of such excesses are still tentative, the findings imply
that meteoritic compounds and/or the processes that operated on meteoritic
precursors may have played an ancient role in the enantiomer composition of
life's carbohydrate-related biopolymers.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1603030113 
PMCID: PMC4914185
PMID: 27247410  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


27. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 14;113(24):E3341-8. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1524360113. Epub 2016 May 31.

Teaching a lay theory before college narrows achievement gaps at scale.

Yeager DS(1), Walton GM(2), Brady ST(3), Akcinar EN(4), Paunesku D(5), Keane
L(6), Kamentz D(7), Ritter G(8), Duckworth AL(9), Urstein R(10), Gomez EM(11),
Markus HR(4), Cohen GL(12), Dweck CS(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Texas at Austin, Austin,TX 78712;
dyeager@utexas.edu gwalton@stanford.edu. (2)Department of Psychology, Stanford
University, Stanford, CA 94305; dyeager@utexas.edu gwalton@stanford.edu.
(3)Graduate School of Education, Stanford University, Stanford, CA 94305;
(4)Department of Psychology, Stanford University, Stanford, CA 94305; (5)Project 
for Education Research That Scales, Department of Psychology, Stanford
University, Stanford, CA 94305; (6)uAspire, Boston, MA 02109; (7)The Character
Lab, Philadelphia, PA 19104; (8)Department of Government, Cornell University,
Ithaca, NY 14853; (9)The Character Lab, Philadelphia, PA 19104; Department of
Psychology, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104; (10)Graduate
School of Business, Stanford University, Stanford, CA 94305; (11)Department of
Psychology, University of Washington, Seattle, WA 98195. (12)Department of
Psychology, Stanford University, Stanford, CA 94305; Graduate School of
Education, Stanford University, Stanford, CA 94305;

Previous experiments have shown that college students benefit when they
understand that challenges in the transition to college are common and improvable
and, thus, that early struggles need not portend a permanent lack of belonging or
potential. Could such an approach-called a lay theory intervention-be effective
before college matriculation? Could this strategy reduce a portion of racial,
ethnic, and socioeconomic achievement gaps for entire institutions? Three
double-blind experiments tested this possibility. Ninety percent of first-year
college students from three institutions were randomly assigned to complete
single-session, online lay theory or control materials before matriculation (n > 
9,500). The lay theory interventions raised first-year full-time college
enrollment among students from socially and economically disadvantaged
backgrounds exiting a high-performing charter high school network or entering a
public flagship university (experiments 1 and 2) and, at a selective private
university, raised disadvantaged students' cumulative first-year grade point
average (experiment 3). These gains correspond to 31-40% reductions of the raw
(unadjusted) institutional achievement gaps between students from disadvantaged
and nondisadvantaged backgrounds at those institutions. Further, follow-up
surveys suggest that the interventions improved disadvantaged students' overall
college experiences, promoting use of student support services and the
development of friendship networks and mentor relationships. This research
therefore provides a basis for further tests of the generalizability of
preparatory lay theories interventions and of their potential to reduce social
inequality and improve other major life transitions.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1524360113 
PMCID: PMC4914175
PMID: 27247409  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


28. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 14;113(24):E3461-7. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1603799113. Epub 2016 May 31.

Mass spectrometry-based absolute quantification reveals rhythmic variation of
mouse circadian clock proteins.

Narumi R(1), Shimizu Y(2), Ukai-Tadenuma M(1), Ode KL(3), Kanda GN(4), Shinohara 
Y(4), Sato A(5), Matsumoto K(1), Ueda HR(6).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory for Synthetic Biology, RIKEN Quantitative Biology Center, Suita,
Osaka 565-0874, Japan; (2)Laboratory for Cell-Free Protein Synthesis, RIKEN
Quantitative Biology Center, Suita, Osaka 565-0874, Japan; yshimizu@riken.jp
uedah-tky@umin.ac.jp. (3)Department of Systems Pharmacology, Graduate School of
Medicine, The University of Tokyo, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 113-0033, Japan;
(4)Laboratory for Synthetic Biology, RIKEN Quantitative Biology Center, Suita,
Osaka 565-0874, Japan; Graduate School of Frontier Biosciences, Osaka University,
Suita, Osaka 565-0871, Japan; (5)Laboratory for Cell-Free Protein Synthesis,
RIKEN Quantitative Biology Center, Suita, Osaka 565-0874, Japan; (6)Laboratory
for Synthetic Biology, RIKEN Quantitative Biology Center, Suita, Osaka 565-0874, 
Japan; Department of Systems Pharmacology, Graduate School of Medicine, The
University of Tokyo, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 113-0033, Japan; Graduate School of
Frontier Biosciences, Osaka University, Suita, Osaka 565-0871, Japan; Core
Research for Evolutional Science and Technology, Japan Science and Technology
Agency, Kawaguchi, Saitama 332-0012, Japan yshimizu@riken.jp
uedah-tky@umin.ac.jp.

Absolute values of protein expression levels in cells are crucial information for
understanding cellular biological systems. Precise quantification of proteins can
be achieved by liquid chromatography (LC)-mass spectrometry (MS) analysis of
enzymatic digests of proteins in the presence of isotope-labeled internal
standards. Thus, development of a simple and easy way for the preparation of
internal standards is advantageous for the analyses of multiple target proteins, 
which will allow systems-level studies. Here we describe a method, termed
MS-based Quantification By isotope-labeled Cell-free products (MS-QBiC), which
provides the simple and high-throughput preparation of internal standards by
using a reconstituted cell-free protein synthesis system, and thereby facilitates
both multiplexed and sensitive quantification of absolute amounts of target
proteins. This method was applied to a systems-level dynamic analysis of
mammalian circadian clock proteins, which consist of transcription factors and
protein kinases that govern central and peripheral circadian clocks in mammals.
Sixteen proteins from 20 selected circadian clock proteins were successfully
quantified from mouse liver over a 24-h time series, and 14 proteins had
circadian variations. Quantified values were applied to detect internal body time
using a previously developed molecular timetable method. The analyses showed that
single time-point data from wild-type mice can predict the endogenous state of
the circadian clock, whereas data from clock mutant mice are not applicable
because of the disappearance of circadian variation.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1603799113 
PMCID: PMC4914154
PMID: 27247408  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


29. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 14;113(24):6737-42. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1606339113. Epub 2016 May 31.

A statistical property of fly odor responses is conserved across odors.

Stevens CF(1).

Author information: 
(1)The Salk Institute, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, CA 92037;
Kavli Institute for Brain and Mind, University of California, San Diego, La
Jolla, CA 92037 stevens@salk.edu.

I have reanalyzed the data presented by Hallem and Carlson [Hallem EA, Carlson JR
(2006) Cell 125(1):143-160] and shown that the combinatorial odor code supplied
by the fruit fly antenna is a very simple one in which nearly all odors produce, 
statistically, the same neuronal response; i.e., the probability distribution of 
sensory neuron firing rates across the population of odorant sensory neurons is
an exponential for nearly all odors and odor mixtures, with the mean rate
dependent on the odor concentration. Between odors, then, the response differs
according to which sensory neurons are firing at what individual rates and with
what mean population rate, but not in the probability distribution of firing
rates. This conclusion is independent of adjustable parameters, and holds both
for monomolecular odors and complex mixtures. Because the circuitry in the
antennal lobe constrains the mean firing rate to be the same for all odors and
concentrations, the odor code is what is known as maximum entropy.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1606339113 
PMCID: PMC4914196
PMID: 27247407  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


30. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 14;113(24):E3375-83. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1604479113. Epub 2016 May 31.

Highly variable individual donor cell fates characterize robust horizontal gene
transfer of an integrative and conjugative element.

Delavat F(1), Mitri S(1), Pelet S(1), van der Meer JR(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Fundamental Microbiology, Bâtiment Biophore, University of
Lausanne, 1015 Lausanne, Switzerland. (2)Department of Fundamental Microbiology, 
Bâtiment Biophore, University of Lausanne, 1015 Lausanne, Switzerland
janroelof.vandermeer@unil.ch.

Horizontal gene transfer is an important evolutionary mechanism for bacterial
adaptation. However, given the typical low transfer frequencies in a bacterial
population, little is known about the fate and interplay of donor cells and the
mobilized DNA during transfer. Here we study transfer of an integrative and
conjugative element (ICE) among individual live bacterial cells. ICEs are widely 
distributed mobile DNA elements that are different than plasmids because they
reside silent in the host chromosome and are maintained through vertical descent.
Occasionally, ICEs become active, excise, and transmit their DNA to a new
recipient, where it is reintegrated. We develop a fluorescent tool to
differentiate excision, transfer, and reintegration of a model ICE named ICEclc
(for carrying the clc genes for chlorocatechol metabolism) among single
Pseudomonas cells by using time-lapse microscopy. We find that ICEclc activation 
is initiated in stationary phase cells, but excision and transfer predominantly
occur only when such cells have been presented with new nutrients. Donors with
activated ICE develop a number of different states, characterized by reduced cell
division rates or growth arrest, persistence, or lysis, concomitant with ICE
excision, and likely, ICE loss or replication. The donor cell state transitions
can be described by using a stochastic model, which predicts that ICE fitness is 
optimal at low initiation rates in stationary phase. Despite highly variable
donor cell fates, ICE transfer is remarkably robust overall, with 75% success
after excision. Our results help to better understand ICE behavior and shed a new
light on bacterial cellular differentiation during horizontal gene transfer.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1604479113 
PMCID: PMC4914192
PMID: 27247406  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


31. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 14;113(24):6689-94. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1523941113. Epub 2016 May 31.

Digital epidemiology reveals global childhood disease seasonality and the effects
of immunization.

Bakker KM(1), Martinez-Bakker ME(2), Helm B(3), Stevenson TJ(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of Michigan, Ann
Arbor, MI 48109; Center for the Study of Complex Systems, University of Michigan,
Ann Arbor, MI 48109; bakkerke@umich.edu tyler.stevenson@abdn.ac.uk. (2)Department
of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ 08544;
(3)Institute of Biodiversity, Animal Health, and Comparative Medicine, University
of Glasgow, Glasgow G12 8QQ, United Kingdom; (4)Institute for Biological and
Environmental Sciences, University of Aberdeen, Aberdeen AB24 2TZ, United Kingdom
bakkerke@umich.edu tyler.stevenson@abdn.ac.uk.

Public health surveillance systems are important for tracking disease dynamics.
In recent years, social and real-time digital data sources have provided new
means of studying disease transmission. Such affordable and accessible data have 
the potential to offer new insights into disease epidemiology at national and
international scales. We used the extensive information repository Google Trends 
to examine the digital epidemiology of a common childhood disease, chicken pox,
caused by varicella zoster virus (VZV), over an 11-y period. We (i) report robust
seasonal information-seeking behavior for chicken pox using Google data from 36
countries, (ii) validate Google data using clinical chicken pox cases, (iii)
demonstrate that Google data can be used to identify recurrent seasonal outbreaks
and forecast their magnitude and seasonal timing, and (iv) reveal that VZV
immunization significantly dampened seasonal cycles in information-seeking
behavior. Our findings provide strong evidence that VZV transmission is seasonal 
and that seasonal peaks show remarkable latitudinal variation. We attribute the
dampened seasonal cycles in chicken pox information-seeking behavior to VZV
vaccine-induced reduction of seasonal transmission. These data and the
methodological approaches provide a way to track the global burden of childhood
disease and illustrate population-level effects of immunization. The global
latitudinal patterns in outbreak seasonality could direct future studies of
environmental and physiological drivers of disease transmission.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1523941113 
PMCID: PMC4914188
PMID: 27247405  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


32. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 14;113(24):6797-802. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1523669113. Epub 2016 May 31.

Credit assignment in movement-dependent reinforcement learning.

McDougle SD(1), Boggess MJ(2), Crossley MJ(2), Parvin D(2), Ivry RB(3), Taylor
JA(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ 08544; Princeton
Neuroscience Institute, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ 08544;
mcdougle@princeton.edu. (2)Department of Psychology, University of California,
Berkeley, CA 94720; (3)Department of Psychology, University of California,
Berkeley, CA 94720; Helen Wills Neuroscience Institute, University of California,
Berkeley, CA 94720. (4)Department of Psychology, Princeton University, Princeton,
NJ 08544; Princeton Neuroscience Institute, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ
08544;

When a person fails to obtain an expected reward from an object in the
environment, they face a credit assignment problem: Did the absence of reward
reflect an extrinsic property of the environment or an intrinsic error in motor
execution? To explore this problem, we modified a popular decision-making task
used in studies of reinforcement learning, the two-armed bandit task. We compared
a version in which choices were indicated by key presses, the standard response
in such tasks, to a version in which the choices were indicated by reaching
movements, which affords execution failures. In the key press condition,
participants exhibited a strong risk aversion bias; strikingly, this bias
reversed in the reaching condition. This result can be explained by a
reinforcement model wherein movement errors influence decision-making, either by 
gating reward prediction errors or by modifying an implicit representation of
motor competence. Two further experiments support the gating hypothesis. First,
we used a condition in which we provided visual cues indicative of movement
errors but informed the participants that trial outcomes were independent of
their actual movements. The main result was replicated, indicating that the
gating process is independent of participants' explicit sense of control. Second,
individuals with cerebellar degeneration failed to modulate their behavior
between the key press and reach conditions, providing converging evidence of an
implicit influence of movement error signals on reinforcement learning. These
results provide a mechanistically tractable solution to the credit assignment
problem.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1523669113 
PMCID: PMC4914179
PMID: 27247404  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


33. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 14;113(24):E3451-60. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1506113113. Epub 2016 May 31.

Thyroid hormones inhibit TGF-β signaling and attenuate fibrotic responses.

Alonso-Merino E(1), Martín Orozco R(1), Ruíz-Llorente L(1), Martínez-Iglesias
OA(1), Velasco-Martín JP(2), Montero-Pedrazuela A(1), Fanjul-Rodríguez L(1),
Contreras-Jurado C(1), Regadera J(2), Aranda A(3).

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Investigaciones Biomédicas "Alberto Sols," Consejo Superior de
Investigaciones Científicas, Universidad Autónoma de Madrid, 20829 Madrid, Spain;
(2)Departamento de Anatomía, Histología y Neurociencia, Facultad de Medicina,
Universidad Autónoma de Madrid, 20829 Madrid, Spain. (3)Instituto de
Investigaciones Biomédicas "Alberto Sols," Consejo Superior de Investigaciones
Científicas, Universidad Autónoma de Madrid, 20829 Madrid, Spain;
aaranda@iib.uam.es.

TGF-β, the most potent profibrogenic factor, acts by activating SMAD (mothers
against decapentaplegic) transcription factors, which bind to SMAD-binding
elements in target genes. Here, we show that the thyroid hormone triiodothyronine
(T3), through binding to its nuclear receptors (TRs), is able to antagonize
transcriptional activation by TGF-β/SMAD. This antagonism involves reduced
phosphorylation of SMADs and a direct interaction of the receptors with SMAD3 and
SMAD4 that is independent of T3-mediated transcriptional activity but requires
residues in the receptor DNA binding domain. T3 reduces occupancy of SMAD-binding
elements in response to TGF-β, reducing histone acetylation and inhibiting
transcription. In agreement with this transcriptional cross-talk, T3 is able to
antagonize fibrotic processes in vivo. Liver fibrosis induced by carbon
tetrachloride is attenuated by thyroid hormone administration to mice, whereas
aged TR knockout mice spontaneously accumulate collagen. Furthermore, skin
fibrosis induced by bleomycin administration is also reduced by the thyroid
hormones. These findings define an important function of the thyroid hormone
receptors and suggest TR ligands could have beneficial effects to block the
progression of fibrotic diseases.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1506113113 
PMCID: PMC4914168
PMID: 27247403  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


34. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 14;113(24):E3413-22. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1606636113. Epub 2016 May 31.

Envelope residue 375 substitutions in simian-human immunodeficiency viruses
enhance CD4 binding and replication in rhesus macaques.

Li H(1), Wang S(1), Kong R(1), Ding W(1), Lee FH(1), Parker Z(1), Kim E(1), Learn
GH(1), Hahn P(1), Policicchio B(2), Brocca-Cofano E(2), Deleage C(3), Hao X(3),
Chuang GY(4), Gorman J(4), Gardner M(5), Lewis MG(6), Hatziioannou T(7), Santra
S(8), Apetrei C(2), Pandrea I(2), Alam SM(9), Liao HX(9), Shen X(9), Tomaras
GD(9), Farzan M(5), Chertova E(3), Keele BF(3), Estes JD(3), Lifson JD(3), Doms
RW(10), Montefiori DC(9), Haynes BF(9), Sodroski JG(11), Kwong PD(3), Hahn
BH(12), Shaw GM(12).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104;
(2)Center for Vaccine Research, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA 15261;
(3)AIDS and Cancer Virus Program, Leidos Biomedical Research Inc., Frederick
National Laboratory, Frederick, MD 21702; (4)Vaccine Research Center, National
Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, National Institutes of Health,
Bethesda, MD 20892; (5)Department of Infectious Disease, Scripps Research
Institute, Jupiter, FL 33458; (6)Bioqual, Inc., Rockville, MD 20852; (7)Aaron
Diamond AIDS Research Center, Rockefeller University, New York, NY 10016;
(8)Center of Virology and Vaccine Research, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center,
Boston, MA 02215; (9)Department of Medicine, Duke University, Durham, NC 27710;
(10)Department of Pathology, Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, Philadelphia,
PA 19104; (11)Department of Cancer Immunology and Virology, Dana-Farber Cancer
Institute, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02215. (12)Department of Medicine, 
University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104; bhahn@upenn.edu
shawg@upenn.edu.

Most simian-human immunodeficiency viruses (SHIVs) bearing envelope (Env)
glycoproteins from primary HIV-1 strains fail to infect rhesus macaques (RMs). We
hypothesized that inefficient Env binding to rhesus CD4 (rhCD4) limits virus
entry and replication and could be enhanced by substituting naturally occurring
simian immunodeficiency virus Env residues at position 375, which resides at a
critical location in the CD4-binding pocket and is under strong positive
evolutionary pressure across the broad spectrum of primate lentiviruses. SHIVs
containing primary or transmitted/founder HIV-1 subtype A, B, C, or D Envs with
genotypic variants at residue 375 were constructed and analyzed in vitro and in
vivo. Bulky hydrophobic or basic amino acids substituted for serine-375 enhanced 
Env affinity for rhCD4, virus entry into cells bearing rhCD4, and virus
replication in primary rhCD4 T cells without appreciably affecting antigenicity
or antibody-mediated neutralization sensitivity. Twenty-four RMs inoculated with 
subtype A, B, C, or D SHIVs all became productively infected with different
Env375 variants-S, M, Y, H, W, or F-that were differentially selected in
different Env backbones. Notably, SHIVs replicated persistently at titers
comparable to HIV-1 in humans and elicited autologous neutralizing antibody
responses typical of HIV-1. Seven animals succumbed to AIDS. These findings
identify Env-rhCD4 binding as a critical determinant for productive SHIV
infection in RMs and validate a novel and generalizable strategy for constructing
SHIVs with Env glycoproteins of interest, including those that in humans elicit
broadly neutralizing antibodies or bind particular Ig germ-line B-cell receptors.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1606636113 
PMCID: PMC4914158
PMID: 27247400  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


35. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 14;113(24):E3359-64. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1521657113. Epub 2016 May 31.

Spatial scale modulates the strength of ecological processes driving disease
distributions.

Cohen JM(1), Civitello DJ(2), Brace AJ(2), Feichtinger EM(2), Ortega CN(2),
Richardson JC(2), Sauer EL(2), Liu X(3), Rohr JR(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Integrative Biology, University of South Florida, Tampa, FL
33620; jcohen9@mail.usf.edu. (2)Department of Integrative Biology, University of 
South Florida, Tampa, FL 33620; (3)Key Laboratory of Animal Ecology and
Conservation Biology, Institute of Zoology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 
100101, People's Republic of China.

Humans are altering the distribution of species by changing the climate and
disrupting biotic interactions and dispersal. A fundamental hypothesis in spatial
ecology suggests that these effects are scale dependent; biotic interactions
should shape distributions at local scales, whereas climate should dominate at
regional scales. If so, common single-scale analyses might misestimate the
impacts of anthropogenic modifications on biodiversity and the environment.
However, large-scale datasets necessary to test these hypotheses have not been
available until recently. Here we conduct a cross-continental, cross-scale
(almost five orders of magnitude) analysis of the influence of biotic and abiotic
processes and human population density on the distribution of three emerging
pathogens: the amphibian chytrid fungus implicated in worldwide amphibian
declines and West Nile virus and the bacterium that causes Lyme disease (Borrelia
burgdorferi), which are responsible for ongoing human health crises. In all three
systems, we show that biotic factors were significant predictors of pathogen
distributions in multiple regression models only at local scales (∼10(2)-10(3)
km(2)), whereas climate and human population density always were significant only
at relatively larger, regional scales (usually >10(4) km(2)). Spatial
autocorrelation analyses revealed that biotic factors were more variable at
smaller scales, whereas climatic factors were more variable at larger scales, as 
is consistent with the prediction that factors should be important at the scales 
at which they vary the most. Finally, no single scale could detect the importance
of all three categories of processes. These results highlight that common
single-scale analyses can misrepresent the true impact of anthropogenic
modifications on biodiversity and the environment.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1521657113 
PMCID: PMC4914148
PMID: 27247398  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


36. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 14;113(24):6629-34. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1606295113. Epub 2016 May 31.

Interlocking directorates in Irish companies using a latent space model for
bipartite networks.

Friel N(1), Rastelli R(1), Wyse J(2), Raftery AE(3).

Author information: 
(1)School of Mathematics and Statistics, University College Dublin, Dublin 4,
Ireland; Insight Centre for Data Analytics, University College Dublin, Dublin 4, 
Ireland; (2)School of Computer Science and Statistics, Trinity College Dublin,
Dublin 2, Ireland. (3)Department of Statistics, University of Washington,
Seattle, WA 98195-4322 raftery@uw.edu.

We analyze the temporal bipartite network of the leading Irish companies and
their directors from 2003 to 2013, encompassing the end of the Celtic Tiger boom 
and the ensuing financial crisis in 2008. We focus on the evolution of company
interlocks, whereby a company director simultaneously sits on two or more boards.
We develop a statistical model for this dataset by embedding the positions of
companies and directors in a latent space. The temporal evolution of the network 
is modeled through three levels of Markovian dependence: one on the model
parameters, one on the companies' latent positions, and one on the edges
themselves. The model is estimated using Bayesian inference. Our analysis reveals
that the level of interlocking, as measured by a contraction of the latent space,
increased before and during the crisis, reaching a peak in 2009, and has
generally stabilized since then.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1606295113 
PMCID: PMC4914205
PMID: 27247395  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


37. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 14;113(24):6773-8. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1606465113. Epub 2016 May 31.

K(ATP) channel gain-of-function leads to increased myocardial L-type Ca(2+)
current and contractility in Cantu syndrome.

Levin MD(1), Singh GK(1), Zhang HX(2), Uchida K(2), Kozel BA(1), Stein PK(3),
Kovacs A(3), Westenbroek RE(4), Catterall WA(5), Grange DK(1), Nichols CG(6).

Author information: 
(1)Center for the Investigation of Membrane Excitability Diseases, Washington
University School of Medicine, St. Louis, MO 63110; Department of Pediatrics,
Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis, MO 63110; (2)Center for the 
Investigation of Membrane Excitability Diseases, Washington University School of 
Medicine, St. Louis, MO 63110; Department of Cell Biology and Physiology,
Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis, MO 63110; (3)Department of
Medicine, Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis, MO 63110;
(4)Department of Pharmacology, University of Washington, Seattle, WA 98195-7280. 
(5)Department of Pharmacology, University of Washington, Seattle, WA 98195-7280
wcatt@uw.edu cnichols@wustl.edu. (6)Center for the Investigation of Membrane
Excitability Diseases, Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis, MO
63110; Department of Cell Biology and Physiology, Washington University School of
Medicine, St. Louis, MO 63110; wcatt@uw.edu cnichols@wustl.edu.

Cantu syndrome (CS) is caused by gain-of-function (GOF) mutations in genes
encoding pore-forming (Kir6.1, KCNJ8) and accessory (SUR2, ABCC9) KATP channel
subunits. We show that patients with CS, as well as mice with constitutive (cGOF)
or tamoxifen-induced (icGOF) cardiac-specific Kir6.1 GOF subunit expression, have
enlarged hearts, with increased ejection fraction and increased contractility.
Whole-cell voltage-clamp recordings from cGOF or icGOF ventricular myocytes (VM) 
show increased basal L-type Ca(2+) current (LTCC), comparable to that seen in WT 
VM treated with isoproterenol. Mice with vascular-specific expression (vGOF) show
left ventricular dilation as well as less-markedly increased LTCC. Increased LTCC
in KATP GOF models is paralleled by changes in phosphorylation of the
pore-forming α1 subunit of the cardiac voltage-gated calcium channel Cav1.2 at
Ser1928, suggesting enhanced protein kinase activity as a potential link between 
increased KATP current and CS cardiac pathophysiology.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1606465113 
PMCID: PMC4914204
PMID: 27247394  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


38. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 14;113(24):E3332-40. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1513156113. Epub 2016 May 31.

Sustained deposition of contaminants from the Deepwater Horizon spill.

Yan B(1), Passow U(2), Chanton JP(3), Nöthig EM(4), Asper V(5), Sweet J(6),
Pitiranggon M(7), Diercks A(5), Pak D(6).

Author information: 
(1)Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory of Columbia University, Palisades, NY 10964; 
yanbz@LDEO.columbia.edu uta.passow@lifesci.ucsb.edu. (2)Marine Science Institute,
University of California, Santa Barbara, CA 93106; yanbz@LDEO.columbia.edu
uta.passow@lifesci.ucsb.edu. (3)Department of Earth, Ocean and Atmospheric
Science, Florida State University, Tallahassee, FL 32306; (4)Alfred Wegener
Institute, Helmholtz Centre for Polar and Marine Research, D-27570 Bremerhaven,
Germany; (5)Department of Marine Science, The University of Southern Mississippi,
Stennis Space Center, MS 39529. (6)Marine Science Institute, University of
California, Santa Barbara, CA 93106; (7)Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory of
Columbia University, Palisades, NY 10964;

The 2010 Deepwater Horizon oil spill resulted in 1.6-2.6 × 10(10) grams of
petrocarbon accumulation on the seafloor. Data from a deep sediment trap,
deployed 7.4 km SW of the well between August 2010 and October 2011, disclose
that the sinking of spill-associated substances, mediated by marine particles,
especially phytoplankton, continued at least 5 mo following the capping of the
well. In August/September 2010, an exceptionally large diatom bloom sedimentation
event coincided with elevated sinking rates of oil-derived hydrocarbons, black
carbon, and two key components of drilling mud, barium and olefins. Barium
remained in the water column for months and even entered pelagic food webs. Both 
saturated and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon source indicators corroborate a
predominant contribution of crude oil to the sinking hydrocarbons.
Cosedimentation with diatoms accumulated contaminants that were dispersed in the 
water column and transported them downward, where they were concentrated into the
upper centimeters of the seafloor, potentially leading to sustained impact on
benthic ecosystems.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1513156113 
PMCID: PMC4914201
PMID: 27247393  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


39. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 14;113(24):E3384-93. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1606876113. Epub 2016 May 31.

Transposon mutagenesis identifies genes and cellular processes driving
epithelial-mesenchymal transition in hepatocellular carcinoma.

Kodama T(1), Newberg JY(1), Kodama M(1), Rangel R(1), Yoshihara K(2), Tien JC(3),
Parsons PH(4), Wu H(4), Finegold MJ(4), Copeland NG(1), Jenkins NA(5).

Author information: 
(1)Cancer Research Program, Houston Methodist Research Institute, Houston, TX
77030; (2)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Niigata University Graduate
School of Medical and Dental Sciences, Niigata 9518510, Japan; (3)Michigan Center
for Translational Pathology, Department of Pathology, University of Michigan, Ann
Arbor, MI 48109; (4)Department of Pathology and Immunology, Baylor College of
Mecidine and Texas Children's Hospital, Houston, TX 77030. (5)Cancer Research
Program, Houston Methodist Research Institute, Houston, TX 77030;
njenkins2@houstonmethodist.org.

Epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) is thought to contribute to metastasis
and chemoresistance in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), leading to
their poor prognosis. The genes driving EMT in HCC are not yet fully understood, 
however. Here, we show that mobilization of Sleeping Beauty (SB) transposons in
immortalized mouse hepatoblasts induces mesenchymal liver tumors on
transplantation to nude mice. These tumors show significant down-regulation of
epithelial markers, along with up-regulation of mesenchymal markers and
EMT-related transcription factors (EMT-TFs). Sequencing of transposon insertion
sites from tumors identified 233 candidate cancer genes (CCGs) that were enriched
for genes and cellular processes driving EMT. Subsequent trunk driver analysis
identified 23 CCGs that are predicted to function early in tumorigenesis and
whose mutation or alteration in patients with HCC is correlated with poor patient
survival. Validation of the top trunk drivers identified in the screen, including
MET (MET proto-oncogene, receptor tyrosine kinase), GRB2-associated binding
protein 1 (GAB1), HECT, UBA, and WWE domain containing 1 (HUWE1), lysine-specific
demethylase 6A (KDM6A), and protein-tyrosine phosphatase, nonreceptor-type 12
(PTPN12), showed that deregulation of these genes activates an EMT program in
human HCC cells that enhances tumor cell migration. Finally, deregulation of
these genes in human HCC was found to confer sorafenib resistance through
apoptotic tolerance and reduced proliferation, consistent with recent studies
showing that EMT contributes to the chemoresistance of tumor cells. Our unique
cell-based transposon mutagenesis screen appears to be an excellent resource for 
discovering genes involved in EMT in human HCC and potentially for identifying
new drug targets.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1606876113 
PMCID: PMC4914200
PMID: 27247392  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


40. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 14;113(24):6713-8. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1606460113. Epub 2016 May 31.

Whole-exome sequencing to analyze population structure, parental inbreeding, and 
familial linkage.

Belkadi A(1), Pedergnana V(2), Cobat A(1), Itan Y(3), Vincent QB(1), Abhyankar
A(4), Shang L(3), El Baghdadi J(5), Bousfiha A(6); Exome/Array Consortium, Alcais
A(1), Boisson B(7), Casanova JL(8), Abel L(9).

Collaborators: Al-Herz W, Arikan C, Arkwright P, Aydogmus C, Bernard O,
Blancas-Galicia L, Boisson-Dupuis S, Bonnet D, Stambouli OB, Boussofara L,
Boutros J, Bustamante J, Ciancanelli M, Cole T, Condino-Neto A, Desai M, Fieschi 
C, Franco JL, Ichai P, Jouanguy E, Keser-Emiroglu M, Kilic SS, Mahdaviani SA,
Mahlhoui N, Mansouri D, Parvaneh N, Picard C, Puel A, Raoult D, Rezaei N, Sanal
O, Ramon SS, Vandenesch F, Vogt G, Zhang SY.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Human Genetics of Infectious Diseases, Necker Branch, INSERM
U1163, Necker Hospital for Sick Children, 75015 Paris, France; Imagine Institute,
Paris Descartes University, 75015 Paris, France; (2)Laboratory of Human Genetics 
of Infectious Diseases, Necker Branch, INSERM U1163, Necker Hospital for Sick
Children, 75015 Paris, France; Imagine Institute, Paris Descartes University,
75015 Paris, France; Wellcome Trust Centre for Human Genetics, University of
Oxford, Oxford OX3 7BN, United Kingdom; (3)St. Giles Laboratory of Human Genetics
of Infectious Diseases, Rockefeller Branch, Rockefeller University, New York, NY 
10065; (4)New York Genome Center, New York, NY 10013; (5)Genetics Unit, Military 
Hospital Mohammed V, Hay Riad, 10100 Rabat, Morocco; (6)Clinical Immunology Unit 
of the Pediatric Infectious Disease Service, Ibn Roshd Hospital, Hassan II
University, Casablanca 20460, Morocco; (7)Laboratory of Human Genetics of
Infectious Diseases, Necker Branch, INSERM U1163, Necker Hospital for Sick
Children, 75015 Paris, France; Imagine Institute, Paris Descartes University,
75015 Paris, France; St. Giles Laboratory of Human Genetics of Infectious
Diseases, Rockefeller Branch, Rockefeller University, New York, NY 10065;
(8)Laboratory of Human Genetics of Infectious Diseases, Necker Branch, INSERM
U1163, Necker Hospital for Sick Children, 75015 Paris, France; Imagine Institute,
Paris Descartes University, 75015 Paris, France; St. Giles Laboratory of Human
Genetics of Infectious Diseases, Rockefeller Branch, Rockefeller University, New 
York, NY 10065; Howard Hughes Medical Institute, New York, NY 10065; Pediatric
Haematology-Immunology Unit, Necker Hospital for Sick Children, 75015 Paris,
France jean-laurent.casanova@rockefeller.edu laurent.abel@inserm.fr.
(9)Laboratory of Human Genetics of Infectious Diseases, Necker Branch, INSERM
U1163, Necker Hospital for Sick Children, 75015 Paris, France; Imagine Institute,
Paris Descartes University, 75015 Paris, France; St. Giles Laboratory of Human
Genetics of Infectious Diseases, Rockefeller Branch, Rockefeller University, New 
York, NY 10065; jean-laurent.casanova@rockefeller.edu laurent.abel@inserm.fr.

Principal component analysis (PCA), homozygosity rate estimations, and linkage
studies in humans are classically conducted through genome-wide single-nucleotide
variant arrays (GWSA). We compared whole-exome sequencing (WES) and GWSA for this
purpose. We analyzed 110 subjects originating from different regions of the
world, including North Africa and the Middle East, which are poorly covered by
public databases and have high consanguinity rates. We tested and applied a
number of quality control (QC) filters. Compared with GWSA, we found that WES
provided an accurate prediction of population substructure using variants with a 
minor allele frequency > 2% (correlation = 0.89 with the PCA coordinates obtained
by GWSA). WES also yielded highly reliable estimates of homozygosity rates using 
runs of homozygosity with a 1,000-kb window (correlation = 0.94 with the
estimates provided by GWSA). Finally, homozygosity mapping analyses in 15
families including a single offspring with high homozygosity rates showed that
WES provided 51% less genome-wide linkage information than GWSA overall but 97%
more information for the coding regions. At the genome-wide scale, 76.3% of
linked regions were found by both GWSA and WES, 17.7% were found by GWSA only,
and 6.0% were found by WES only. For coding regions, the corresponding
percentages were 83.5%, 7.4%, and 9.1%, respectively. With appropriate QC
filters, WES can be used for PCA and adjustment for population substructure,
estimating homozygosity rates in individuals, and powerful linkage analyses,
particularly in coding regions.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1606460113 
PMCID: PMC4914194
PMID: 27247391  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


41. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 14;113(24):6785-90. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1600899113. Epub 2016 May 31.

Draft genome of the peanut A-genome progenitor (Arachis duranensis) provides
insights into geocarpy, oil biosynthesis, and allergens.

Chen X(1), Li H(2), Pandey MK(3), Yang Q(4), Wang X(5), Garg V(3), Li H(1), Chi
X(6), Doddamani D(3), Hong Y(1), Upadhyaya H(3), Guo H(5), Khan AW(3), Zhu F(1), 
Zhang X(2), Pan L(6), Pierce GJ(5), Zhou G(1), Krishnamohan KA(3), Chen M(6),
Zhong N(1), Agarwal G(3), Li S(2), Chitikineni A(3), Zhang GQ(7), Sharma S(3),
Chen N(6), Liu H(1), Janila P(3), Li S(1), Wang M(2), Wang T(6), Sun J(6), Li
X(1), Li C(2), Wang M(6), Yu L(6), Wen S(1), Singh S(3), Yang Z(6), Zhao J(2),
Zhang C(6), Yu Y(8), Bi J(6), Zhang X(9), Liu ZJ(10), Paterson AH(11), Wang
S(12), Liang X(13), Varshney RK(14), Yu S(15).

Author information: 
(1)Crops Research Institute, Guangdong Academy of Agricultural Sciences, South
China Peanut Sub-Center of National Center of Oilseed Crops Improvement,
Guangdong Key Laboratory for Crops Genetic Improvement, Guangzhou 510640, China; 
(2)Shandong Shofine Seed Company, Jiaxiang 272400, China; (3)International Crops 
Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics, Hyderabad 502324, India;
(4)Shandong Peanut Research Institute, Shandong Academy of Agricultural Sciences,
Qingdao 266000, China; College of Food Science and Engineering, Qingdao
Agricultural University, Qingdao 266000, China; (5)Plant Genome Mapping
Laboratory, University of Georgia, Athens, GA 30605; (6)Shandong Peanut Research 
Institute, Shandong Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Qingdao 266000, China;
(7)Shenzhen Key Laboratory for Orchid Conservation and Utilization, National
Orchid Conservation Center of China and Orchid Conservation and Research Center
of Shenzhen, Shenzhen 518000, China; (8)Macrogen Millennium Genomics Company,
Shenzhen 518000, China; (9)College of Food Science and Engineering, Qingdao
Agricultural University, Qingdao 266000, China; (10)Shenzhen Key Laboratory for
Orchid Conservation and Utilization, National Orchid Conservation Center of China
and Orchid Conservation and Research Center of Shenzhen, Shenzhen 518000, China; 
liuzj@sinicaorchid.org paterson@uga.edu wsp@shofine.com liang-804@163.com
r.k.varshney@cgiar.org yshanlin1956@163.com. (11)Plant Genome Mapping Laboratory,
University of Georgia, Athens, GA 30605; liuzj@sinicaorchid.org paterson@uga.edu 
wsp@shofine.com liang-804@163.com r.k.varshney@cgiar.org yshanlin1956@163.com.
(12)Shandong Shofine Seed Company, Jiaxiang 272400, China; liuzj@sinicaorchid.org
paterson@uga.edu wsp@shofine.com liang-804@163.com r.k.varshney@cgiar.org
yshanlin1956@163.com. (13)Crops Research Institute, Guangdong Academy of
Agricultural Sciences, South China Peanut Sub-Center of National Center of
Oilseed Crops Improvement, Guangdong Key Laboratory for Crops Genetic
Improvement, Guangzhou 510640, China; liuzj@sinicaorchid.org paterson@uga.edu
wsp@shofine.com liang-804@163.com r.k.varshney@cgiar.org yshanlin1956@163.com.
(14)International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics, Hyderabad
502324, India; School of Plant Biology, University of Western Australia, Crawley,
WA 6009, Australia; The Institute of Agriculture, University of Western
Australia, Crawley, WA 6009, Australia liuzj@sinicaorchid.org paterson@uga.edu
wsp@shofine.com liang-804@163.com r.k.varshney@cgiar.org yshanlin1956@163.com.
(15)Shandong Peanut Research Institute, Shandong Academy of Agricultural
Sciences, Qingdao 266000, China; liuzj@sinicaorchid.org paterson@uga.edu
wsp@shofine.com liang-804@163.com r.k.varshney@cgiar.org yshanlin1956@163.com.

Peanut or groundnut (Arachis hypogaea L.), a legume of South American origin, has
high seed oil content (45-56%) and is a staple crop in semiarid tropical and
subtropical regions, partially because of drought tolerance conferred by its
geocarpic reproductive strategy. We present a draft genome of the peanut A-genome
progenitor, Arachis duranensis, and 50,324 protein-coding gene models. Patterns
of gene duplication suggest the peanut lineage has been affected by at least
three polyploidizations since the origin of eudicots. Resequencing of synthetic
Arachis tetraploids reveals extensive gene conversion in only three seed-to-seed 
generations since their formation by human hands, indicating that this process
begins virtually immediately following polyploid formation. Expansion of some
specific gene families suggests roles in the unusual subterranean fructification 
of Arachis For example, the S1Fa-like transcription factor family has 126 Arachis
members, in contrast to no more than five members in other examined plant
species, and is more highly expressed in roots and etiolated seedlings than green
leaves. The A. duranensis genome provides a major source of candidate genes for
fructification, oil biosynthesis, and allergens, expanding knowledge of
understudied areas of plant biology and human health impacts of plants, informing
peanut genetic improvement and aiding deeper sequencing of Arachis diversity.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1600899113 
PMCID: PMC4914189
PMID: 27247390  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


42. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 14;113(24):6653-8. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1525654113. Epub 2016 May 31.

Sirtuin-dependent reversible lysine acetylation of glutamine synthetases reveals 
an autofeedback loop in nitrogen metabolism.

You D(1), Yin BC(1), Li ZH(1), Zhou Y(1), Yu WB(1), Zuo P(1), Ye BC(2).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Biosystems and Microanalysis, State Key Laboratory of Bioreactor
Engineering, East China University of Science and Technology, Shanghai 200237,
China; (2)Laboratory of Biosystems and Microanalysis, State Key Laboratory of
Bioreactor Engineering, East China University of Science and Technology, Shanghai
200237, China; School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Shihezi University, 
Xinjiang 832000, China bcye@ecust.edu.cn.

In cells of all domains of life, reversible lysine acetylation modulates the
function of proteins involved in central cellular processes such as metabolism.
In this study, we demonstrate that the nitrogen regulator GlnR of the
actinomycete Saccharopolyspora erythraea directly regulates transcription of the 
acuA gene (SACE_5148), which encodes a Gcn5-type lysine acetyltransferase. We
found that AcuA acetylates two glutamine synthetases (GlnA1 and GlnA4) and that
this lysine acetylation inactivated GlnA4 (GSII) but had no significant effect on
GlnA1 (GSI-β) activity under the conditions tested. Instead, acetylation of GlnA1
led to a gain-of-function that modulated its interaction with the GlnR regulator 
and enhanced GlnR-DNA binding. It was observed that this regulatory function of
acetylated GSI-β enzymes is highly conserved across actinomycetes. In turn, GlnR 
controls the catalytic and regulatory activities (intracellular acetylation
levels) of glutamine synthetases at the transcriptional and posttranslational
levels, indicating an autofeedback loop that regulates nitrogen metabolism in
response to environmental change. Thus, this GlnR-mediated acetylation pathway
provides a signaling cascade that acts from nutrient sensing to acetylation of
proteins to feedback regulation. This work presents significant new insights at
the molecular level into the mechanisms underlying the regulation of protein
acetylation and nitrogen metabolism in actinomycetes.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1525654113 
PMCID: PMC4914186
PMID: 27247389  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


43. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 14;113(24):E3441-50. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1602070113. Epub 2016 May 31.

Morphine paradoxically prolongs neuropathic pain in rats by amplifying spinal
NLRP3 inflammasome activation.

Grace PM(1), Strand KA(2), Galer EL(2), Urban DJ(3), Wang X(4), Baratta MV(2),
Fabisiak TJ(2), Anderson ND(2), Cheng K(5), Greene LI(2), Berkelhammer D(2),
Zhang Y(2), Ellis AL(2), Yin HH(6), Campeau S(2), Rice KC(5), Roth BL(3), Maier
SF(2), Watkins LR(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology and Neuroscience, University of Colorado, Boulder, CO
80309; The Center for Neuroscience, University of Colorado, Boulder, CO 80309;
Discipline of Pharmacology, School of Medicine, University of Adelaide, Adelaide,
SA 5005, Australia; peter.grace@colorado.edu. (2)Department of Psychology and
Neuroscience, University of Colorado, Boulder, CO 80309; The Center for
Neuroscience, University of Colorado, Boulder, CO 80309; (3)Department of
Pharmacology, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC 27599; (4)Department 
of Psychology and Neuroscience, University of Colorado, Boulder, CO 80309; The
Center for Neuroscience, University of Colorado, Boulder, CO 80309; Chemical
Biology Laboratory, Changchun Institute of Applied Chemistry, Chinese Academy of 
Sciences, Changchun, Jilin 130022, China; Department of Chemistry and
Biochemistry, University of Colorado, Boulder, CO 80309; BioFrontiers Institute, 
University of Colorado, Boulder, CO 80309; The Center for Neuroscience,
University of Colorado, Boulder, CO 80309; (5)Chemical Biology Research Branch,
National Institute on Drug Abuse and National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and
Alcoholism, Bethesda, MD 20892; (6)Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry,
University of Colorado, Boulder, CO 80309; BioFrontiers Institute, University of 
Colorado, Boulder, CO 80309; The Center for Neuroscience, University of Colorado,
Boulder, CO 80309; Center of Basic Molecular Science, Department of Chemistry,
Tsinghua University, Beijing 100082, China.

Opioid use for pain management has dramatically increased, with little assessment
of potential pathophysiological consequences for the primary pain condition.
Here, a short course of morphine, starting 10 d after injury in male rats,
paradoxically and remarkably doubled the duration of chronic constriction injury 
(CCI)-allodynia, months after morphine ceased. No such effect of opioids on
neuropathic pain has previously been reported. Using pharmacologic and genetic
approaches, we discovered that the initiation and maintenance of this multimonth 
prolongation of neuropathic pain was mediated by a previously unidentified
mechanism for spinal cord and pain-namely, morphine-induced spinal NOD-like
receptor protein 3 (NLRP3) inflammasomes and associated release of interleukin-1β
(IL-1β). As spinal dorsal horn microglia expressed this signaling platform, these
cells were selectively inhibited in vivo after transfection with a novel Designer
Receptor Exclusively Activated by Designer Drugs (DREADD). Multiday treatment
with the DREADD-specific ligand clozapine-N-oxide prevented and enduringly
reversed morphine-induced persistent sensitization for weeks to months after
cessation of clozapine-N-oxide. These data demonstrate both the critical
importance of microglia and that maintenance of chronic pain created by early
exposure to opioids can be disrupted, resetting pain to normal. These data also
provide strong support for the recent "two-hit hypothesis" of microglial priming,
leading to exaggerated reactivity after the second challenge, documented here in 
the context of nerve injury followed by morphine. This study predicts that
prolonged pain is an unrealized and clinically concerning consequence of the
abundant use of opioids in chronic pain.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1602070113 
PMCID: PMC4914184
PMID: 27247388  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


44. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 14;113(24):6725-30. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1603872113. Epub 2016 May 31.

The adenovirus E4-ORF3 protein functions as a SUMO E3 ligase for TIF-1γ
sumoylation and poly-SUMO chain elongation.

Sohn SY(1), Hearing P(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Genetics and Microbiology, School of Medicine, Stony
Brook University, Stony Brook, NY 11794-5222. (2)Department of Molecular Genetics
and Microbiology, School of Medicine, Stony Brook University, Stony Brook, NY
11794-5222 patrick.hearing@stonybrook.edu.

The adenovirus (Ad) early region 4 (E4)-ORF3 protein regulates diverse cellular
processes to optimize the host environment for the establishment of Ad
replication. E4-ORF3 self-assembles into multimers to form a nuclear scaffold in 
infected cells and creates distinct binding interfaces for different cellular
target proteins. Previous studies have shown that the Ad5 E4-ORF3 protein induces
sumoylation of multiple cellular proteins and subsequent proteasomal degradation 
of some of them, but the detailed mechanism of E4-ORF3 function remained unknown.
Here, we investigate the role of E4-ORF3 in the sumoylation process by using
transcription intermediary factor (TIF)-1γ as a substrate. Remarkably, we
discovered that purified E4-ORF3 protein stimulates TIF-1γ sumoylation in vitro, 
demonstrating that E4-ORF3 acts as a small ubiquitin-like modifier (SUMO) E3
ligase. Furthermore, E4-ORF3 significantly increases poly-SUMO3 chain formation
in vitro in the absence of substrate, showing that E4-ORF3 has SUMO E4 elongase
activity. An E4-ORF3 mutant, which is defective in protein multimerization,
exhibited severely decreased activity, demonstrating that E4-ORF3 self-assembly
is required for these activities. Using a SUMO3 mutant, K11R, we found that
E4-ORF3 facilitates the initial acceptor SUMO3 conjugation to TIF-1γ as well as
poly-SUMO chain elongation. The E4-ORF3 protein displays no SUMO-targeted
ubiquitin ligase activity in our assay system. These studies reveal the mechanism
by which E4-ORF3 targets specific cellular proteins for sumoylation and
proteasomal degradation and provide significant insight into how a small viral
protein can play a role as a SUMO E3 ligase and E4-like SUMO elongase to impact a
variety of cellular responses.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1603872113 
PMCID: PMC4914182
PMID: 27247387  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


45. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 14;113(24):E3431-40. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1522985113. Epub 2016 May 31.

Engineering control of bacterial cellulose production using a genetic toolkit and
a new cellulose-producing strain.

Florea M(1), Hagemann H(2), Santosa G(1), Abbott J(3), Micklem CN(1),
Spencer-Milnes X(1), de Arroyo Garcia L(1), Paschou D(2), Lazenbatt C(1), Kong
D(2), Chughtai H(2), Jensen K(4), Freemont PS(4), Kitney R(2), Reeve B(2), Ellis 
T(5).

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Synthetic Biology and Innovation, Imperial College London, London
SW7 2AZ, United Kingdom; Department of Life Sciences, Imperial College London,
London SW7 2AZ, United Kingdom; (2)Centre for Synthetic Biology and Innovation,
Imperial College London, London SW7 2AZ, United Kingdom; Department of
Bioengineering, Imperial College London, London SW7 2AZ, United Kingdom;
(3)Bioinformatics Support Service, Department of Surgery and Cancer, Imperial
College London, London SW7 2AZ, United Kingdom; Centre for Integrative Systems
Biology and Bioinformatics, Imperial College London, London SW7 2AZ, United
Kingdom; (4)Centre for Synthetic Biology and Innovation, Imperial College London,
London SW7 2AZ, United Kingdom; Department of Medicine, Imperial College London, 
London SW7 2AZ, United Kingdom. (5)Centre for Synthetic Biology and Innovation,
Imperial College London, London SW7 2AZ, United Kingdom; Department of
Bioengineering, Imperial College London, London SW7 2AZ, United Kingdom;
t.ellis@imperial.ac.uk.

Bacterial cellulose is a strong and ultrapure form of cellulose produced
naturally by several species of the Acetobacteraceae Its high strength, purity,
and biocompatibility make it of great interest to materials science; however,
precise control of its biosynthesis has remained a challenge for biotechnology.
Here we isolate a strain of Komagataeibacter rhaeticus (K. rhaeticus iGEM) that
can produce cellulose at high yields, grow in low-nitrogen conditions, and is
highly resistant to toxic chemicals. We achieved external control over its
bacterial cellulose production through development of a modular genetic toolkit
that enables rational reprogramming of the cell. To further its use as an
organism for biotechnology, we sequenced its genome and demonstrate genetic
circuits that enable functionalization and patterning of heterologous gene
expression within the cellulose matrix. This work lays the foundations for using 
genetic engineering to produce cellulose-based materials, with numerous
applications in basic science, materials engineering, and biotechnology.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1522985113 
PMCID: PMC4914174
PMID: 27247386  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


46. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 14;113(24):6641-6. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1522306113. Epub 2016 May 31.

Mechanisms underlying the social enhancement of vocal learning in songbirds.

Chen Y(1), Matheson LE(2), Sakata JT(3).

Author information: 
(1)Integrated Program in Neuroscience, McGill University, Quebec, QC, Canada H1A 
2B4; (2)Department of Biology, McGill University, Quebec, QC, Canada H3A 1B1;
(3)Integrated Program in Neuroscience, McGill University, Quebec, QC, Canada H1A 
2B4; Department of Biology, McGill University, Quebec, QC, Canada H3A 1B1; Centre
for Research on Brain, Language, and Music, Quebec, QC, Canada H3G 2A8; Center
for Studies in Behavioral Neurobiology, Quebec, QC, Canada H4B 1R6
jon.sakata@mcgill.ca.

Social processes profoundly influence speech and language acquisition. Despite
the importance of social influences, little is known about how social
interactions modulate vocal learning. Like humans, songbirds learn their
vocalizations during development, and they provide an excellent opportunity to
reveal mechanisms of social influences on vocal learning. Using yoked
experimental designs, we demonstrate that social interactions with adult tutors
for as little as 1 d significantly enhanced vocal learning. Social influences on 
attention to song seemed central to the social enhancement of learning because
socially tutored birds were more attentive to the tutor's songs than passively
tutored birds, and because variation in attentiveness and in the social
modulation of attention significantly predicted variation in vocal learning.
Attention to song was influenced by both the nature and amount of tutor song:
Pupils paid more attention to songs that tutors directed at them and to tutors
that produced fewer songs. Tutors altered their song structure when directing
songs at pupils in a manner that resembled how humans alter their vocalizations
when speaking to infants, that was distinct from how tutors changed their songs
when singing to females, and that could influence attention and learning.
Furthermore, social interactions that rapidly enhanced learning increased the
activity of noradrenergic and dopaminergic midbrain neurons. These data highlight
striking parallels between humans and songbirds in the social modulation of vocal
learning and suggest that social influences on attention and midbrain circuitry
could represent shared mechanisms underlying the social modulation of vocal
learning.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1522306113 
PMCID: PMC4914165
PMID: 27247385  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


47. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 14;113(24):6677-82. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1602875113. Epub 2016 May 31.

Sphingomyelin is sorted at the trans Golgi network into a distinct class of
secretory vesicle.

Deng Y(1), Rivera-Molina FE(1), Toomre DK(1), Burd CG(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Biology, Yale School of Medicine, New Haven, CT 06520.
(2)Department of Cell Biology, Yale School of Medicine, New Haven, CT 06520
christopher.burd@yale.edu.

One of the principal functions of the trans Golgi network (TGN) is the sorting of
proteins into distinct vesicular transport carriers that mediate secretion and
interorganelle trafficking. Are lipids also sorted into distinct TGN-derived
carriers? The Golgi is the principal site of the synthesis of sphingomyelin (SM),
an abundant sphingolipid that is transported. To address the specificity of SM
transport to the plasma membrane, we engineered a natural SM-binding pore-forming
toxin, equinatoxin II (Eqt), into a nontoxic reporter termed Eqt-SM and used it
to monitor intracellular trafficking of SM. Using quantitative live cell imaging,
we found that Eqt-SM is enriched in a subset of TGN-derived secretory vesicles
that are also enriched in a glycophosphatidylinositol-anchored protein. In
contrast, an integral membrane secretory protein (CD8α) is not enriched in these 
carriers. Our results demonstrate the sorting of native SM at the TGN and its
transport to the plasma membrane by specific carriers.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1602875113 
PMCID: PMC4914164
PMID: 27247384  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


48. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 14;113(24):6635-40. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1522714113. Epub 2016 May 31.

Ancient crops provide first archaeological signature of the westward Austronesian
expansion.

Crowther A(1), Lucas L(2), Helm R(3), Horton M(4), Shipton C(5), Wright HT(6),
Walshaw S(7), Pawlowicz M(8), Radimilahy C(9), Douka K(10), Picornell-Gelabert
L(11), Fuller DQ(2), Boivin NL(12).

Author information: 
(1)School of Social Science, The University of Queensland, Brisbane, QLD 4072,
Australia; a.crowther@uq.edu.au. (2)Institute of Archaeology, University College 
London, London WC1H 0PY, United Kingdom; (3)Canterbury Archaeological Trust,
Canterbury CT1 2LU, United Kingdom; (4)Department of Archaeology and
Anthropology, University of Bristol, Bristol BS8 1UU, United Kingdom; (5)British 
Institute in Eastern Africa, Nairobi 00100, Kenya; McDonald Institute for
Archaeological Research, University of Cambridge, Cambridge CB2 3ER, United
Kingdom; (6)Museum of Anthropology, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI
48109-1079; The Santa Fe Institute, Santa Fe, NM 87501; (7)Department of History,
Simon Fraser University, Burnaby, BC V5A 1S6, Canada; (8)Anthropology Program,
School of World Studies, Virginia Commonwealth University, Richmond, VA
23284-2021; (9)Institute des Civilisations-Musée d'Art et d'Archéologie,
L'Université d'Antananarivo, Antananarivo BP 564, Madagascar; (10)Research
Laboratory for Archaeology and the History of Art, University of Oxford, Oxford
OX1 3QY, United Kingdom; (11)Department of Historical Sciences and Theory of Art,
University of the Balearic Islands, 07122 Palma, Spain; (12)School of
Archaeology, University of Oxford, Oxford OX1 2PG, United Kingdom; Department of 
Archaeology, Max Planck Institute for the Science of Human History, D-07743 Jena,
Germany.

The Austronesian settlement of the remote island of Madagascar remains one of the
great puzzles of Indo-Pacific prehistory. Although linguistic, ethnographic, and 
genetic evidence points clearly to a colonization of Madagascar by Austronesian
language-speaking people from Island Southeast Asia, decades of archaeological
research have failed to locate evidence for a Southeast Asian signature in the
island's early material record. Here, we present new archaeobotanical data that
show that Southeast Asian settlers brought Asian crops with them when they
settled in Africa. These crops provide the first, to our knowledge, reliable
archaeological window into the Southeast Asian colonization of Madagascar. They
additionally suggest that initial Southeast Asian settlement in Africa was not
limited to Madagascar, but also extended to the Comoros. Archaeobotanical data
may support a model of indirect Austronesian colonization of Madagascar from the 
Comoros and/or elsewhere in eastern Africa.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1522714113 
PMCID: PMC4914162
PMID: 27247383  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


49. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 14;113(24):E3349-58. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1523810113. Epub 2016 May 31.

Dynamic recruitment and activation of ALS-associated TBK1 with its target
optineurin are required for efficient mitophagy.

Moore AS(1), Holzbaur EL(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Perelman School of Medicine, University of
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104. (2)Department of Physiology, Perelman
School of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104
holzbaur@mail.med.upenn.edu.

Mitochondria play an essential role in maintaining cellular homeostasis. The
removal of damaged or depolarized mitochondria occurs via mitophagy, in which
damaged mitochondria are targeted for degradation via ubiquitination induced by
PTEN-induced putative kinase 1 (PINK1) and Parkin. Mitophagy receptors, including
optineurin (OPTN), nuclear dot 52 kDa protein (NDP52), and Tax1-binding protein 1
(TAX1BP1), are recruited to mitochondria via ubiquitin binding and mediate
autophagic engulfment through their association with microtubule-associated
protein light chain 3 (LC3). Here, we use live-cell imaging to demonstrate that
OPTN, NDP52, and TAX1BP1 are recruited to mitochondria with similar kinetics
following either mitochondrial depolarization or localized generation of reactive
oxygen species, leading to sequestration by the autophagosome within ∼45 min
after insult. Despite this corecruitment, we find that depletion of OPTN, but not
NDP52, significantly slows the efficiency of sequestration. OPTN is
phosphorylated by the kinase TANK-binding kinase 1 (TBK1) at serine 177; we find 
that TBK1 is corecruited with OPTN to depolarized mitochondria. Inhibition or
depletion of TBK1, or expression of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis
(ALS)-associated OPTN or TBK1 mutant blocks efficient autophagosome formation.
Together, these results indicate that although there is some functional
redundancy among mitophagy receptors, efficient sequestration of damaged
mitochondria in response to mitochondrial stress requires both TBK1 and OPTN.
Notably, ALS-linked mutations in OPTN and TBK1 can interfere with mitophagy,
suggesting that inefficient turnover of damaged mitochondria may represent a key 
pathophysiological mechanism contributing to neurodegenerative disease.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1523810113 
PMCID: PMC4914160
PMID: 27247382  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


50. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 14;113(24):6755-60. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1525030113. Epub 2016 May 31.

Hierarchy of prediction errors for auditory events in human temporal and frontal 
cortex.

Dürschmid S(1), Edwards E(2), Reichert C(3), Dewar C(4), Hinrichs H(5), Heinze
HJ(5), Kirsch HE(2), Dalal SS(6), Deouell LY(7), Knight RT(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Behavioral Neurology, Leibniz Institute for Neurobiology, 39120 
Magdeburg, Germany; Department of Neurology, Otto von Guericke University, 39120 
Magdeburg, Germany; Helen Wills Neuroscience Institute and Department of
Psychology, University of California, Berkeley, CA 94720;
stefan.duerschmid@googlemail.com. (2)Department of Neurology, University of
California, San Francisco, CA 94143; (3)Department of Behavioral Neurology,
Leibniz Institute for Neurobiology, 39120 Magdeburg, Germany; Forschungscampus
Stimulate, Otto von Guericke University, 39106 Magdeburg, Germany; (4)Helen Wills
Neuroscience Institute and Department of Psychology, University of California,
Berkeley, CA 94720; (5)Department of Behavioral Neurology, Leibniz Institute for 
Neurobiology, 39120 Magdeburg, Germany; Department of Neurology, Otto von
Guericke University, 39120 Magdeburg, Germany; Forschungscampus Stimulate, Otto
von Guericke University, 39106 Magdeburg, Germany; German Center for
Neurodegenerative Diseases, 39120 Magdeburg, Germany; Center of Behavioral Brain 
Sciences, Otto von Guericke University, 39106 Magdeburg, Germany;
(6)Zukunftskolleg and Department of Psychology, University of Konstanz, 78457
Konstanz, Germany; (7)Department of Psychology, The Hebrew University of
Jerusalem, Jerusalem 91905, Israel; Edmond and Lily Safra Center for Brain
Sciences, The Hebrew University of Jerusalem, Jerusalem 91904, Israel.

Predictive coding theories posit that neural networks learn statistical
regularities in the environment for comparison with actual outcomes, signaling a 
prediction error (PE) when sensory deviation occurs. PE studies in audition have 
capitalized on low-frequency event-related potentials (LF-ERPs), such as the
mismatch negativity. However, local cortical activity is well-indexed by
higher-frequency bands [high-γ band (Hγ): 80-150 Hz]. We compared patterns of
human Hγ and LF-ERPs in deviance detection using electrocorticographic recordings
from subdural electrodes over frontal and temporal cortices. Patients listened to
trains of task-irrelevant tones in two conditions differing in the predictability
of a deviation from repetitive background stimuli (fully predictable vs.
unpredictable deviants). We found deviance-related responses in both frequency
bands over lateral temporal and inferior frontal cortex, with an earlier latency 
for Hγ than for LF-ERPs. Critically, frontal Hγ activity but not LF-ERPs
discriminated between fully predictable and unpredictable changes, with frontal
cortex sensitive to unpredictable events. The results highlight the role of
frontal cortex and Hγ activity in deviance detection and PE generation.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1525030113 
PMCID: PMC4914143
PMID: 27247381  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


51. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 14;113(24):6665-70. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1603154113. Epub 2016 May 27.

Free-energy landscape of a hyperstable RNA tetraloop.

Miner JC(1), Chen AA(2), García AE(3).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Nonlinear Studies, Los Alamos National Laboratory, Los Alamos, NM
87545; Department of Biological Sciences, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, Troy,
NY 12180; (2)Department of Chemistry, University at Albany, State University of
New York, Albany, NY 12222; (3)Center for Nonlinear Studies, Los Alamos National 
Laboratory, Los Alamos, NM 87545; Department of Physics, Applied Physics, and
Astronomy, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, Troy, NY 12180 agarcia@lanl.gov.

We report the characterization of the energy landscape and the folding/unfolding 
thermodynamics of a hyperstable RNA tetraloop obtained through high-performance
molecular dynamics simulations at microsecond timescales. Sampling of the
configurational landscape is conducted using temperature replica exchange
molecular dynamics over three isochores at high, ambient, and negative pressures 
to determine the thermodynamic stability and the free-energy landscape of the
tetraloop. The simulations reveal reversible folding/unfolding transitions of the
tetraloop into the canonical A-RNA conformation and the presence of two
alternative configurations, including a left-handed Z-RNA conformation and a
compact purine Triplet. Increasing hydrostatic pressure shows a stabilizing
effect on the A-RNA conformation and a destabilization of the left-handed Z-RNA. 
Our results provide a comprehensive description of the folded free-energy
landscape of a hyperstable RNA tetraloop and highlight the significant advances
of all-atom molecular dynamics in describing the unbiased folding of a simple RNA
secondary structure motif.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1603154113 
PMCID: PMC4914146
PMID: 27233937  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


52. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 14;113(24):6599-604. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1606042113. Epub 2016 May 27.

Topological surface states interacting with bulk excitations in the Kondo
insulator SmB6 revealed via planar tunneling spectroscopy.

Park WK(1), Sun L(2), Noddings A(2), Kim DJ(3), Fisk Z(3), Greene LH(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics and Materials Research Laboratory, University of
Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Urbana, IL 61801; wkpark@illinois.edu
lhgreene@magnet.fsu.edu. (2)Department of Physics and Materials Research
Laboratory, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Urbana, IL 61801;
(3)Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of California, Irvine, CA
92697.

Samarium hexaboride (SmB6), a well-known Kondo insulator in which the insulating 
bulk arises from strong electron correlations, has recently attracted great
attention owing to increasing evidence for its topological nature, thereby
harboring protected surface states. However, corroborative spectroscopic evidence
is still lacking, unlike in the weakly correlated counterparts, including Bi2Se3 
Here, we report results from planar tunneling that unveil the detailed
spectroscopic properties of SmB6 The tunneling conductance obtained on the (001) 
and (011) single crystal surfaces reveals linear density of states as expected
for two and one Dirac cone(s), respectively. Quite remarkably, it is found that
these topological states are not protected completely within the bulk
hybridization gap. A phenomenological model of the tunneling process invoking
interaction of the surface states with bulk excitations (spin excitons), as
predicted by a recent theory, provides a consistent explanation for all of the
observed features. Our spectroscopic study supports and explains the proposed
picture of the incompletely protected surface states in this topological Kondo
insulator SmB6.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1606042113 
PMCID: PMC4914149
PMID: 27233936  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


53. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 14;113(24):6605-10. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1602811113. Epub 2016 May 26.

Superresolved multiphoton microscopy with spatial frequency-modulated imaging.

Field JJ(1), Wernsing KA(2), Domingue SR(2), Allende Motz AM(3), DeLuca KF(4),
Levi DH(5), DeLuca JG(4), Young MD(6), Squier JA(6), Bartels RA(7).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Colorado State University, 
Fort Collins, CO 80523; Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology,
Colorado State University, Fort Collins, CO 80523; Microscope Imaging Network
Foundational Core Facility, Colorado State University, Fort Collins, CO 80523;
Institute for Genome Architecture and Function, Colorado State University, Fort
Collins, CO 80523; jjfield@rams.colostate.edu. (2)Department of Electrical and
Computer Engineering, Colorado State University, Fort Collins, CO 80523;
(3)Department of Physics, Colorado School of Mines, Golden, CO 80401; National
Renewable Energy Laboratory, Golden, CO 80401; (4)Department of Biochemistry and 
Molecular Biology, Colorado State University, Fort Collins, CO 80523; Microscope 
Imaging Network Foundational Core Facility, Colorado State University, Fort
Collins, CO 80523; Institute for Genome Architecture and Function, Colorado State
University, Fort Collins, CO 80523; (5)National Renewable Energy Laboratory,
Golden, CO 80401; (6)Department of Physics, Colorado School of Mines, Golden, CO 
80401; (7)Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Colorado State
University, Fort Collins, CO 80523; Microscope Imaging Network Foundational Core 
Facility, Colorado State University, Fort Collins, CO 80523; Institute for Genome
Architecture and Function, Colorado State University, Fort Collins, CO 80523;
School of Biomedical Engineering, Colorado State University, Fort Collins, CO
80523.

Superresolved far-field microscopy has emerged as a powerful tool for
investigating the structure of objects with resolution well below the diffraction
limit of light. Nearly all superresolution imaging techniques reported to date
rely on real energy states of fluorescent molecules to circumvent the diffraction
limit, preventing superresolved imaging with contrast mechanisms that occur via
virtual energy states, including harmonic generation (HG). We report a
superresolution technique based on spatial frequency-modulated imaging (SPIFI)
that permits superresolved nonlinear microscopy with any contrast mechanism and
with single-pixel detection. We show multimodal superresolved images with
two-photon excited fluorescence (TPEF) and second-harmonic generation (SHG) from 
biological and inorganic media. Multiphoton SPIFI (MP-SPIFI) provides spatial
resolution up to 2η below the diffraction limit, where η is the highest power of 
the nonlinear intensity response. MP-SPIFI can be used to provide enhanced
resolution in optically thin media and may provide a solution for superresolved
imaging deep in scattering media.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1602811113 
PMCID: PMC4914181
PMID: 27231219  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


54. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 7;113(23):6325-7. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1605972113. Epub 2016 May 26.

Genes, dopamine pathways, and sociality in primates.

French JA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Program in Neuroscience and Department of Psychology, University of Nebraska
at Omaha, Omaha, NE 68182 jfrench@unomaha.edu.

Comment on
    Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 May 31;113(22):6178-81.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1605972113 
PMCID: PMC4988601
PMID: 27231218  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


55. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 14;113(24):6695-700. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1514427113. Epub 2016 May 25.

Networks of highly branched stigmarian rootlets developed on the first giant
trees.

Hetherington AJ(1), Berry CM(2), Dolan L(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Plant Sciences, University of Oxford, Oxford OX1 3RB, United
Kingdom; (2)School of Earth and Ocean Sciences, Cardiff University, Cardiff CF10 
3AT, United Kingdom. (3)Department of Plant Sciences, University of Oxford,
Oxford OX1 3RB, United Kingdom; liam.dolan@plants.ox.ac.uk.

Lycophyte trees, up to 50 m in height, were the tallest in the Carboniferous coal
swamp forests. The similarity in their shoot and root morphology led to the
hypothesis that their rooting (stigmarian) systems were modified leafy shoot
systems, distinct from the roots of all other plants. Each consists of a
branching main axis covered on all sides by lateral structures in a phyllotactic 
arrangement; unbranched microphylls developed from shoot axes, and largely
unbranched stigmarian rootlets developed from rhizomorphs axes. Here, we
reexamined the morphology of extinct stigmarian systems preserved as compression 
fossils and in coal balls from the Carboniferous period. Contrary to the
long-standing view of stigmarian systems, where shoot-like rhizomorph axes
developed largely unbranched, root-hairless rootlets, here we report that
stigmarian rootlets were highly branched, developed at a density of ∼25,600
terminal rootlets per meter of rhizomorph, and were covered in root hairs.
Furthermore, we show that this architecture is conserved among their only extant 
relatives, herbaceous plants in the Isoetes genus. Therefore, despite the
difference in stature and the time that has elapsed, we conclude that both extant
and extinct rhizomorphic lycopsids have the same rootlet system architecture.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1514427113 
PMCID: PMC4914198
PMID: 27226309  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


56. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 14;113(24):6779-84. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1606241113. Epub 2016 May 25.

Chloroplast FBPase and SBPase are thioredoxin-linked enzymes with similar
architecture but different evolutionary histories.

Gütle DD(1), Roret T(2), Müller SJ(3), Couturier J(2), Lemaire SD(4), Hecker
A(2), Dhalleine T(2), Buchanan BB(5), Reski R(6), Einsle O(7), Jacquot JP(8).

Author information: 
(1)Plant Biotechnology, Faculty of Biology, University of Freiburg, 79104
Freiburg, Germany; Université de Lorraine, UMR 1136 Interactions Arbres
Microorganismes, F-54500 Vandœuvre-les-Nancy, France; Institut national de la
recherche agronomique (INRA), UMR 1136 Interactions Arbres Microorganismes,
F-54280 Champenoux, France; Spemann Graduate School of Biology and Medicine,
University of Freiburg, 79104 Freiburg, Germany; (2)Université de Lorraine, UMR
1136 Interactions Arbres Microorganismes, F-54500 Vandœuvre-les-Nancy, France;
Institut national de la recherche agronomique (INRA), UMR 1136 Interactions
Arbres Microorganismes, F-54280 Champenoux, France; (3)Plant Biotechnology,
Faculty of Biology, University of Freiburg, 79104 Freiburg, Germany; (4)Sorbonne 
Universités, Université Pierre et Marie Curie (UPMC) Université Paris 6, CNRS UMR
8226, Laboratoire de Biologie Moléculaire et Cellulaire des Eucaryotes, Institut 
de Biologie Physico-Chimique, 75005 Paris, France; (5)Department of Plant &
Microbial Biology, University of California, Berkeley, CA 94720-3102;
j2p@univ-lorraine.fr view@berkeley.edu. (6)Plant Biotechnology, Faculty of
Biology, University of Freiburg, 79104 Freiburg, Germany; Spemann Graduate School
of Biology and Medicine, University of Freiburg, 79104 Freiburg, Germany; Centre 
for Biological Signalling Studies (BIOSS), 79104 Freiburg, Germany; Freiburg
Institute for Advanced Studies (FRIAS), 79104 Freiburg, Germany; (7)Spemann
Graduate School of Biology and Medicine, University of Freiburg, 79104 Freiburg, 
Germany; Centre for Biological Signalling Studies (BIOSS), 79104 Freiburg,
Germany; Freiburg Institute for Advanced Studies (FRIAS), 79104 Freiburg,
Germany; Institute for Biochemistry, University of Freiburg, 79104 Freiburg,
Germany. (8)Université de Lorraine, UMR 1136 Interactions Arbres Microorganismes,
F-54500 Vandœuvre-les-Nancy, France; Institut national de la recherche
agronomique (INRA), UMR 1136 Interactions Arbres Microorganismes, F-54280
Champenoux, France; j2p@univ-lorraine.fr view@berkeley.edu.

The Calvin-Benson cycle of carbon dioxide fixation in chloroplasts is controlled 
by light-dependent redox reactions that target specific enzymes. Of the
regulatory members of the cycle, our knowledge of
sedoheptulose-1,7-bisphosphatase (SBPase) is particularly scanty, despite growing
evidence for its importance and link to plant productivity. To help fill this
gap, we have purified, crystallized, and characterized the recombinant form of
the enzyme together with the better studied fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase (FBPase),
in both cases from the moss Physcomitrella patens (Pp). Overall, the moss enzymes
resembled their counterparts from seed plants, including oligomeric
organization-PpSBPase is a dimer, and PpFBPase is a tetramer. The two
phosphatases showed striking structural homology to each other, differing
primarily in their solvent-exposed surface areas in a manner accounting for their
specificity for seven-carbon (sedoheptulose) and six-carbon (fructose) sugar
bisphosphate substrates. The two enzymes had a similar redox potential for their 
regulatory redox-active disulfides (-310 mV for PpSBPase vs. -290 mV for
PpFBPase), requirement for Mg(2+) and thioredoxin (TRX) specificity (TRX f > TRX 
m). Previously known to differ in the position and sequence of their regulatory
cysteines, the enzymes unexpectedly showed unique evolutionary histories. The
FBPase gene originated in bacteria in conjunction with the endosymbiotic event
giving rise to mitochondria, whereas SBPase arose from an archaeal gene resident 
in the eukaryotic host. These findings raise the question of how enzymes with
such different evolutionary origins achieved structural similarity and adapted to
control by the same light-dependent photosynthetic mechanism-namely ferredoxin,
ferredoxin-thioredoxin reductase, and thioredoxin.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1606241113 
PMCID: PMC4914176
PMID: 27226308  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


57. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 7;113(23):E3250-9. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1600561113. Epub 2016 May 25.

Growth hormone is permissive for neoplastic colon growth.

Chesnokova V(1), Zonis S(1), Zhou C(1), Recouvreux MV(1), Ben-Shlomo A(1), Araki 
T(1), Barrett R(2), Workman M(2), Wawrowsky K(1), Ljubimov VA(1), Uhart M(1),
Melmed S(3).

Author information: 
(1)Pituitary Center, Department of Medicine, Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, Los
Angeles, CA 90048; (2)Department of Medicine, Board of Governors Regenerative
Medicine Institute, Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, Los Angeles, CA 90048;
Department of Medicine, F. Widjaja Foundation Inflammatory Bowel and
Immunobiology Research Institute, Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, Los Angeles, CA
90048. (3)Pituitary Center, Department of Medicine, Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, 
Los Angeles, CA 90048; melmed@csmc.edu.

Erratum in
    Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Aug 30;113(35):E5251.

Growth hormone (GH) excess in acromegaly is associated with increased
precancerous colon polyps and soft tissue adenomas, whereas short-stature humans 
harboring an inactivating GH receptor mutation do not develop cancer. We show
that locally expressed colon GH is abundant in conditions predisposing to colon
cancer and in colon adenocarcinoma-associated stromal fibroblasts. Administration
of a GH receptor (GHR) blocker in acromegaly patients induced colon p53 and
adenomatous polyposis coli (APC), reversing progrowth GH signals. p53 was also
induced in skin fibroblasts derived from short-statured humans with mutant GHR.
GH-deficient prophet of pituitary-specific positive transcription factor 1
(Prop1)(-/-) mice exhibited induced colon p53 levels, and cross-breeding them
with Apc(min+/-) mice that normally develop intestinal and colon tumors resulted 
in GH-deficient double mutants with markedly decreased tumor number and size. We 
also demonstrate that GH suppresses p53 and reduces apoptosis in human colon cell
lines as well as in induced human pluripotent stem cell-derived intestinal
organoids, and confirm in vivo that GH suppresses colon mucosal p53/p21. GH
excess leads to decreased colon cell phosphatase and tensin homolog deleted on
chromosome 10 (PTEN), increased cell survival with down-regulated APC, nuclear
β-catenin accumulation, and increased epithelial-mesenchymal transition factors
and colon cell motility. We propose that GH is a molecular component of the
"field change" milieu permissive for neoplastic colon growth.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1600561113 
PMCID: PMC4988562
PMID: 27226307  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


58. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 7;113(23):E3240-9. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1521453113. Epub 2016 May 25.

CYP450-derived oxylipins mediate inflammatory resolution.

Gilroy DW(1), Edin ML(2), De Maeyer RP(3), Bystrom J(4), Newson J(3), Lih FB(2), 
Stables M(3), Zeldin DC(2), Bishop-Bailey D(5).

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Clinical Pharmacology and Therapeutics, Division of Medicine,
University College London, London WC1E 6JJ, United Kingdom; d.gilroy@ucl.ac.uk
dbishopbailey@rvc.ac.uk. (2)Division of Intramural Research, National Institute
of Environmental Health Sciences, National Institutes of Health, Research
Triangle Park, NC 27709; (3)Centre for Clinical Pharmacology and Therapeutics,
Division of Medicine, University College London, London WC1E 6JJ, United Kingdom;
(4)William Harvey Research Institute, Barts and The London, Queen Mary University
of London, London EC1M 6BQ, United Kingdom; (5)Comparative Biomedical Sciences,
Royal Veterinary College, London NW1 0TU, United Kingdom d.gilroy@ucl.ac.uk
dbishopbailey@rvc.ac.uk.

Resolution of inflammation has emerged as an active process in immunobiology,
with cells of the mononuclear phagocyte system being critical in mediating
efferocytosis and wound debridement and bridging the gap between innate and
adaptive immunity. Here we investigated the roles of cytochrome P450
(CYP)-derived epoxy-oxylipins in a well-characterized model of sterile resolving 
peritonitis in the mouse. Epoxy-oxylipins were produced in a biphasic manner
during the peaks of acute (4 h) and resolution phases (24-48 h) of the response. 
The epoxygenase inhibitor SKF525A (epoxI) given at 24 h selectively inhibited
arachidonic acid- and linoleic acid-derived CYP450-epoxy-oxlipins and resulted in
a dramatic influx in monocytes. The epoxI-recruited monocytes were strongly
GR1(+), Ly6c(hi), CCR2(hi), CCL2(hi), and CX3CR1(lo) In addition, expression of
F4/80 and the recruitment of T cells, B cells, and dendritic cells were
suppressed. sEH (Ephx2)(-/-) mice, which have elevated epoxy-oxylipins,
demonstrated opposing effects to epoxI-treated mice: reduced Ly6c(hi) monocytes
and elevated F4/80(hi) macrophages and B, T, and dendritic cells. Ly6c(hi) and
Ly6c(lo) monocytes, resident macrophages, and recruited dendritic cells all
showed a dramatic change in their resolution signature following in vivo epoxI
treatment. Markers of macrophage differentiation CD11b, MerTK, and CD103 were
reduced, and monocyte-derived macrophages and resident macrophages ex vivo showed
greatly impaired phagocytosis of zymosan and efferocytosis of apoptotic
thymocytes following epoxI treatment. These findings demonstrate that
epoxy-oxylipins have a critical role in monocyte lineage recruitment and activity
to promote inflammatory resolution and represent a previously unidentified
internal regulatory system governing the establishment of adaptive immunity.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1521453113 
PMCID: PMC4988604
PMID: 27226306  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


59. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 14;113(24):6671-6. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1504327113. Epub 2016 May 25.

New paradigm to assess brain cell morphology by diffusion-weighted MR
spectroscopy in vivo.

Palombo M(1), Ligneul C(2), Najac C(2), Le Douce J(2), Flament J(3), Escartin
C(2), Hantraye P(4), Brouillet E(2), Bonvento G(2), Valette J(1).

Author information: 
(1)MIRCen, Institut d'Imagerie Biomédicale, Direction de la Recherche
Fondamentale, Commissariat à l'Energie Atomique et aux Energies Alternatives,
F-92260 Fontenay-aux-Roses, France; Unité Mixte de Recherche (UMR) 9199
(Neurodegenerative Diseases Laboratory), Université Paris-Sud, Université
Paris-Saclay, CNRS, F-92260 Fontenay-aux-Roses, France; marco.palombo@cea.fr
julien.valette@cea.fr. (2)MIRCen, Institut d'Imagerie Biomédicale, Direction de
la Recherche Fondamentale, Commissariat à l'Energie Atomique et aux Energies
Alternatives, F-92260 Fontenay-aux-Roses, France; Unité Mixte de Recherche (UMR) 
9199 (Neurodegenerative Diseases Laboratory), Université Paris-Sud, Université
Paris-Saclay, CNRS, F-92260 Fontenay-aux-Roses, France; (3)MIRCen, Institut
d'Imagerie Biomédicale, Direction de la Recherche Fondamentale, Commissariat à
l'Energie Atomique et aux Energies Alternatives, F-92260 Fontenay-aux-Roses,
France; Unité Mixte de Service (UMS) 27, INSERM, F-92260 Fontenay-aux-Roses,
France. (4)MIRCen, Institut d'Imagerie Biomédicale, Direction de la Recherche
Fondamentale, Commissariat à l'Energie Atomique et aux Energies Alternatives,
F-92260 Fontenay-aux-Roses, France; Unité Mixte de Recherche (UMR) 9199
(Neurodegenerative Diseases Laboratory), Université Paris-Sud, Université
Paris-Saclay, CNRS, F-92260 Fontenay-aux-Roses, France; Unité Mixte de Service
(UMS) 27, INSERM, F-92260 Fontenay-aux-Roses, France.

The brain is one of the most complex organs, and tools are lacking to assess its 
cellular morphology in vivo. Here we combine original diffusion-weighted magnetic
resonance (MR) spectroscopy acquisition and novel modeling strategies to explore 
the possibility of quantifying brain cell morphology noninvasively. First, the
diffusion of cell-specific metabolites is measured at ultra-long diffusion times 
in the rodent and primate brain in vivo to observe how cell long-range morphology
constrains metabolite diffusion. Massive simulations of particles diffusing in
synthetic cells parameterized by morphometric statistics are then iterated to fit
experimental data. This method yields synthetic cells (tentatively neurons and
astrocytes) that exhibit striking qualitative and quantitative similarities with 
histology (e.g., using Sholl analysis). With our approach, we measure major
interspecies difference regarding astrocytes, whereas dendritic organization
appears better conserved throughout species. This work suggests that the time
dependence of metabolite diffusion coefficient allows distinguishing and
quantitatively characterizing brain cell morphologies noninvasively.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1504327113 
PMCID: PMC4914152
PMID: 27226303  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


60. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 7;113(23):6328-9. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1606110113. Epub 2016 May 25.

Uncovering variation in the patterns of aging.

Roach DA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, VA 22004
droach@virginia.edu.

Comment on
    Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 7;113(23):6502-7.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1606110113 
PMCID: PMC4988558
PMID: 27226301  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


61. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 7;113(23):E3260-9. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1522811113. Epub 2016 May 25.

Coxiella burnetii effector CvpB modulates phosphoinositide metabolism for optimal
vacuole development.

Martinez E(1), Allombert J(1), Cantet F(1), Lakhani A(1), Yandrapalli N(1),
Neyret A(1), Norville IH(2), Favard C(1), Muriaux D(1), Bonazzi M(3).

Author information: 
(1)CNRS, Formation de Recherche en Évolution 3689, Centre d'études d'agents
Pathogènes et Biotechnologies pour la Santé, Université Montpellier, 34090
Montpellier, France; (2)Defence Science and Technology Laboratory, Porton Down
SP4 0JQ, United Kingdom. (3)CNRS, Formation de Recherche en Évolution 3689,
Centre d'études d'agents Pathogènes et Biotechnologies pour la Santé, Université 
Montpellier, 34090 Montpellier, France; matteo.bonazzi@cpbs.cnrs.fr.

The Q fever bacterium Coxiella burnetii replicates inside host cells within a
large Coxiella-containing vacuole (CCV) whose biogenesis relies on the
Dot/Icm-dependent secretion of bacterial effectors. Several membrane trafficking 
pathways contribute membranes, proteins, and lipids for CCV biogenesis. These
include the endocytic and autophagy pathways, which are characterized by
phosphatidylinositol 3-phosphate [PI(3)P]-positive membranes. Here we show that
the C. burnetii secreted effector Coxiella vacuolar protein B (CvpB) binds PI(3)P
and phosphatidylserine (PS) on CCVs and early endosomal compartments and perturbs
the activity of the phosphatidylinositol 5-kinase PIKfyve to manipulate PI(3)P
metabolism. CvpB association to early endosome triggers vacuolation and
clustering, leading to the channeling of large PI(3)P-positive membranes to CCVs 
for vacuole expansion. At CCVs, CvpB binding to early endosome- and
autophagy-derived PI(3)P and the concomitant inhibition of PIKfyve favor the
association of the autophagosomal machinery to CCVs for optimal homotypic fusion 
of the Coxiella-containing compartments. The importance of manipulating PI(3)P
metabolism is highlighted by mutations in cvpB resulting in a multivacuolar
phenotype, rescuable by gene complementation, indicative of a defect in CCV
biogenesis. Using the insect model Galleria mellonella, we demonstrate the in
vivo relevance of defective CCV biogenesis by highlighting an attenuated
virulence phenotype associated with cvpB mutations.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1522811113 
PMCID: PMC4988616
PMID: 27226300  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


62. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 14;113(24):6719-24. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1524665113. Epub 2016 May 25.

Unique lipid anchor attaches Vi antigen capsule to the surface of Salmonella
enterica serovar Typhi.

Liston SD(1), Ovchinnikova OG(1), Whitfield C(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology, University of Guelph, Guelph,
ON, Canada, N1G2W1. (2)Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology, University
of Guelph, Guelph, ON, Canada, N1G2W1 cwhitfie@uoguelph.ca.

Polysaccharide capsules are surface structures that are critical for the
virulence of many Gram-negative pathogenic bacteria. Salmonella enterica serovar 
Typhi is the etiological agent of typhoid fever. It produces a capsular
polysaccharide known as "Vi antigen," which is composed of nonstoichiometrically 
O-acetylated α-1,4-linked N-acetylgalactosaminuronic acid residues. This glycan
is a component of currently available vaccines. The genetic locus for Vi antigen 
production is also present in soil bacteria belonging to the genus Achromobacter 
Vi antigen assembly follows a widespread general strategy with a characteristic
glycan export step involving an ATP-binding cassette transporter. However, Vi
antigen producers lack the enzymes that build the conserved terminal glycolipid
characterizing other capsules using this method. Achromobacter species possess a 
Vi antigen-specific depolymerase enzyme missing in S enterica Typhi, and we
exploited this enzyme to isolate acylated Vi antigen termini. Mass spectrometry
analysis revealed a reducing terminal N-acetylhexosamine residue modified with
two β-hydroxyl acyl chains. This terminal structure resembles one half of lipid
A, the hydrophobic portion of bacterial lipopolysaccharides. The VexE protein
encoded in the Vi antigen biosynthesis locus shares similarity with LpxL, an
acyltransferase from lipid A biosynthesis. In the absence of VexE, Vi antigen is 
produced, but its physical properties are altered, its export is impaired, and a 
Vi capsule structure is not assembled on the cell surface. The structure of the
lipidated terminus dictates a unique assembly mechanism and has potential
implications in pathogenesis and vaccine production.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1524665113 
PMCID: PMC4914157
PMID: 27226298  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


63. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 14;113(24):6683-8. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1601519113. Epub 2016 May 25.

Antifreeze proteins govern the precipitation of trehalose in a freezing-avoiding 
insect at low temperature.

Wen X(1), Wang S(2), Duman JG(3), Arifin JF(2), Juwita V(2), Goddard WA 3rd(4),
Rios A(5), Liu F(4), Kim SK(4), Abrol R(4), DeVries AL(6), Henling LM(7).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, California State University, Los
Angeles, CA 90032; Division of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, California
Institute of Technology, Pasadena, CA 91125; xwen3@calstatela.edu. (2)Department 
of Chemistry and Biochemistry, California State University, Los Angeles, CA
90032; (3)Department of Biological Sciences, University of Notre Dame, Notre
Dame, IN 46556; (4)Division of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, California
Institute of Technology, Pasadena, CA 91125; (5)Department of Chemistry and
Biochemistry, California State University, Los Angeles, CA 90032; Division of
Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena,
CA 91125; Department of Physics and Astronomy, California State University, Los
Angeles, CA 90032; (6)Department of Animal Biology, University of Illinois at
Urbana-Champaign, Urbana, IL 61801; (7)Beckman Institute, California Institute of
Technology, Pasadena, CA 91125.

The remarkable adaptive strategies of insects to extreme environments are linked 
to the biochemical compounds in their body fluids. Trehalose, a versatile sugar
molecule, can accumulate to high levels in freeze-tolerant and freeze-avoiding
insects, functioning as a cryoprotectant and a supercooling agent. Antifreeze
proteins (AFPs), known to protect organisms from freezing by lowering the
freezing temperature and deferring the growth of ice, are present at high levels 
in some freeze-avoiding insects in winter, and yet, paradoxically are found in
some freeze-tolerant insects. Here, we report a previously unidentified role for 
AFPs in effectively inhibiting trehalose precipitation in the hemolymph (or
blood) of overwintering beetle larvae. We determine the trehalose level (29.6 ±
0.6 mg/mL) in the larval hemolymph of a beetle, Dendroides canadensis, and
demonstrate that the hemolymph AFPs are crucial for inhibiting trehalose
crystallization, whereas the presence of trehalose also enhances the antifreeze
activity of AFPs. To dissect the molecular mechanism, we examine the molecular
recognition between AFP and trehalose crystal interfaces using molecular dynamics
simulations. The theory corroborates the experiments and shows preferential
strong binding of the AFP to the fast growing surfaces of the sugar crystal. This
newly uncovered role for AFPs may help explain the long-speculated role of AFPs
in freeze-tolerant species. We propose that the presence of high levels of
molecules important for survival but prone to precipitation in poikilotherms
(their body temperature can vary considerably) needs a companion mechanism to
prevent the precipitation and here present, to our knowledge, the first example. 
Such a combination of trehalose and AFPs also provides a novel approach for cold 
protection and for trehalose crystallization inhibition in industrial
applications.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1601519113 
PMCID: PMC4914155
PMID: 27226297  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


64. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 14;113(24):E3394-402. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1604178113. Epub 2016 May 25.

Transcriptional regulator Bhlhe40 works as a cofactor of T-bet in the regulation 
of IFN-γ production in iNKT cells.

Kanda M(1), Yamanaka H(2), Kojo S(3), Usui Y(4), Honda H(5), Sotomaru Y(6),
Harada M(7), Taniguchi M(7), Suzuki N(8), Atsumi T(9), Wada H(4), Baghdadi M(4), 
Seino K(3).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Immunobiology, Institute for Genetic Medicine, Hokkaido
University, Kita-15 Nishi-7, Sapporo 060-0815, Japan; Division of Rheumatology,
Endocrinology, and Nephrology, Hokkaido University Graduate School of Medicine,
Kita-15 Nishi-7, Sapporo 060-0815, Japan; Japan Society for the Promotion of
Science, 5-3-1 Koujimachi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 102-0083, Japan; (2)Division of
Immunobiology, Institute for Genetic Medicine, Hokkaido University, Kita-15
Nishi-7, Sapporo 060-0815, Japan; Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, St.
Marianna University School of Medicine, 2-16-1 Sugao, Miyamae-ku, Kawasaki City, 
Kanagawa 216-8512, Japan; (3)Division of Immunobiology, Institute for Genetic
Medicine, Hokkaido University, Kita-15 Nishi-7, Sapporo 060-0815, Japan;
seino@igm.hokudai.ac.jp satoshi.kojo@riken.jp. (4)Division of Immunobiology,
Institute for Genetic Medicine, Hokkaido University, Kita-15 Nishi-7, Sapporo
060-0815, Japan; (5)Research Institute for Radiation Biology and Medicine,
Hiroshima University, 1-2-3 Kasumi, Minami-ku, Hiroshima City, Hiroshima
734-8553, Japan; (6)Natural Science Center for Basic Research and Development,
Hiroshima University, 1-2-3 Kasumi, Minami-ku, Hiroshima City, Hiroshima
734-8553, Japan; (7)Laboratory for Immune Regulation, RIKEN Center for
Integrative Medical Sciences, 1-7-22 Suehiro-cho, Tsurumi-ku, Yokohama, Kanagawa 
230-0045, Japan. (8)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, St. Marianna
University School of Medicine, 2-16-1 Sugao, Miyamae-ku, Kawasaki City, Kanagawa 
216-8512, Japan; (9)Division of Rheumatology, Endocrinology, and Nephrology,
Hokkaido University Graduate School of Medicine, Kita-15 Nishi-7, Sapporo
060-0815, Japan;

Invariant natural killer T (iNKT) cells are a subset of innate-like T cells that 
act as important mediators of immune responses. In particular, iNKT cells have
the ability to immediately produce large amounts of IFN-γ upon activation and
thus initiate immune responses in various pathological conditions. However,
molecular mechanisms that control IFN-γ production in iNKT cells are not fully
understood. Here, we report that basic helix-loop-helix transcription factor
family, member e40 (Bhlhe40), is an important regulator for IFN-γ production in
iNKT cells. Bhlhe40 is highly expressed in stage 3 thymic iNKT cells and iNKT1
subsets, and the level of Bhlhe40 mRNA expression is correlated with Ifng mRNA
expression in the resting state. Although Bhlhe40-deficient mice show normal iNKT
cell development, Bhlhe40-deficient iNKT cells show significant impairment of
IFN-γ production and antitumor effects. Bhlhe40 alone shows no significant
effects on Ifng promoter activities but contributes to enhance T-box
transcription factor Tbx21 (T-bet)-mediated Ifng promoter activation. Chromatin
immunoprecipitation analysis revealed that Bhlhe40 accumulates in the T-box
region of the Ifng locus and contributes to histone H3-lysine 9 acetylation of
the Ifng locus, which is impaired without T-bet conditions. These results
indicate that Bhlhe40 works as a cofactor of T-bet for enhancing IFN-γ production
in iNKT cells.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1604178113 
PMCID: PMC4914147
PMID: 27226296  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


65. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 14;113(24):6749-54. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1600944113. Epub 2016 May 25.

nArgBP2 regulates excitatory synapse formation by controlling dendritic spine
morphology.

Lee SE(1), Kim Y(2), Han JK(3), Park H(4), Lee U(1), Na M(1), Jeong S(1), Chung
C(4), Cestra G(5), Chang S(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Biomedical Sciences, Seoul National University
College of Medicine, Seoul 01030, South Korea; Biomembrane Plasticity Research
Center, Seoul National University College of Medicine, Seoul 01030, South Korea; 
(2)Department of Physiology and Biomedical Sciences, Seoul National University
College of Medicine, Seoul 01030, South Korea; Biomembrane Plasticity Research
Center, Seoul National University College of Medicine, Seoul 01030, South Korea; 
KM Convergence Research Division, Korea Institute of Oriental Medicine, Daejeon
34054, South Korea; (3)Department of Physiology and Biomedical Sciences, Seoul
National University College of Medicine, Seoul 01030, South Korea;
Interdisciplinary Program in Neuroscience, Seoul National University College of
Medicine, Seoul 01030, South Korea; (4)Department of Biological Sciences, Konkuk 
University, Seoul 05029, South Korea; (5)Istituto di Biologia e Patologia
Molecolari, Consiglio Nazionale delle Ricerche, 00185 Rome, Italy; Department of 
Biology and Biotechnology, University of Rome "Sapienza", 00185 Rome, Italy
sunghoe@snu.ac.kr gianluca.cestra@uniroma1.it. (6)Department of Physiology and
Biomedical Sciences, Seoul National University College of Medicine, Seoul 01030, 
South Korea; Biomembrane Plasticity Research Center, Seoul National University
College of Medicine, Seoul 01030, South Korea; Interdisciplinary Program in
Neuroscience, Seoul National University College of Medicine, Seoul 01030, South
Korea; sunghoe@snu.ac.kr gianluca.cestra@uniroma1.it.

Neural Abelson-related gene-binding protein 2 (nArgBP2) was originally identified
as a protein that directly interacts with synapse-associated protein
90/postsynaptic density protein 95-associated protein 3 (SAPAP3), a postsynaptic 
scaffolding protein critical for the assembly of glutamatergic synapses. Although
genetic deletion of nArgBP2 in mice leads to manic/bipolar-like behaviors
resembling many aspects of symptoms in patients with bipolar disorder, the actual
function of nArgBP2 at the synapse is completely unknown. Here, we found that the
knockdown (KD) of nArgBP2 by specific small hairpin RNAs (shRNAs) resulted in a
dramatic change in dendritic spine morphology. Reintroducing shRNA-resistant
nArgBP2 reversed these defects. In particular, nArgBP2 KD impaired spine-synapse 
formation such that excitatory synapses terminated mostly at dendritic shafts
instead of spine heads in spiny neurons, although inhibitory synapse formation
was not affected. nArgBP2 KD further caused a marked increase of actin
cytoskeleton dynamics in spines, which was associated with increased
Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome protein-family verprolin homologous protein 1
(WAVE1)/p21-activated kinase (PAK) phosphorylation and reduced activity of
cofilin. These effects of nArgBP2 KD in spines were rescued by inhibiting PAK or 
activating cofilin combined with sequestration of WAVE. Together, our results
suggest that nArgBP2 functions to regulate spine morphogenesis and subsequent
spine-synapse formation at glutamatergic synapses. They also raise the
possibility that the aberrant regulation of synaptic actin filaments caused by
reduced nArgBP2 expression may contribute to the manifestation of the synaptic
dysfunction observed in manic/bipolar disorder.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1600944113 
PMCID: PMC4914163
PMID: 27226294  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


66. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 7;113(23):6438-43. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1525500113. Epub 2016 May 24.

Enhanced thermopower in ZnO two-dimensional electron gas.

Shimizu S(1), Bahramy MS(2), Iizuka T(3), Ono S(4), Miwa K(5), Tokura Y(2), Iwasa
Y(2).

Author information: 
(1)RIKEN Center for Emergent Matter Science, Wako, Saitama 351-0198, Japan;
sshimizu@riken.jp. (2)RIKEN Center for Emergent Matter Science, Wako, Saitama
351-0198, Japan; Quantum Phase Electronics Center and Department of Applied
Physics, University of Tokyo, Bunkyo, Tokyo 113-8656, Japan; (3)Quantum Phase
Electronics Center and Department of Applied Physics, University of Tokyo,
Bunkyo, Tokyo 113-8656, Japan; (4)RIKEN Center for Emergent Matter Science, Wako,
Saitama 351-0198, Japan; Central Research Institute of Electric Power Industry,
Yokosuka, Kanagawa 240-0196, Japan. (5)Central Research Institute of Electric
Power Industry, Yokosuka, Kanagawa 240-0196, Japan.

Control of dimensionality has proven to be an effective way to manipulate the
electronic properties of materials, thereby enabling exotic quantum phenomena,
such as superconductivity, quantum Hall effects, and valleytronic effects.
Another example is thermoelectricity, which has been theoretically proposed to be
favorably controllable by reducing the dimensionality. Here, we verify this
proposal by performing a systematic study on a gate-tuned 2D electron gas (2DEG) 
system formed at the surface of ZnO. Combining state-of-the-art
electric-double-layer transistor experiments and realistic tight-binding
calculations, we show that, for a wide range of carrier densities, the 2DEG
channel comprises a single subband, and its effective thickness can be reduced to
[Formula: see text] 1 nm at sufficiently high gate biases. We also demonstrate
that the thermoelectric performance of the 2DEG region is significantly higher
than that of bulk ZnO. Our approach opens up a route to exploit the peculiar
behavior of 2DEG electronic states and realize thermoelectric devices with
advanced functionalities.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1525500113 
PMCID: PMC4988615
PMID: 27222585  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


67. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 7;113(23):6538-43. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1606280113. Epub 2016 May 24.

Analysis of complex neural circuits with nonlinear multidimensional hidden state 
models.

Friedman A(1), Slocum JF(1), Tyulmankov D(1), Gibb LG(1), Altshuler A(2),
Ruangwises S(1), Shi Q(1), Toro Arana SE(1), Beck DW(1), Sholes JE(3), Graybiel
AM(4).

Author information: 
(1)McGovern Institute for Brain Research, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 
Cambridge, MA 02139; Department of Brain and Cognitive Sciences, Massachusetts
Institute of Technology, Cambridge, MA 02139; (2)Program on Crisis Leadership,
Ash Center for Democratic Governance & Innovation, Kennedy School of Government, 
Harvard University, Cambridge, MA 02138; Department of Management, Faculty of
Social Sciences, Bar-Ilan University, Ramat Gan, 5290002, Israel; Homeland
Security Program, The Institute for National Security Studies, Tel Aviv, 6997556,
Israel; (3)Department of Musicology and Ethnomusicology, Boston University,
Boston, MA 02215. (4)McGovern Institute for Brain Research, Massachusetts
Institute of Technology, Cambridge, MA 02139; Department of Brain and Cognitive
Sciences, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, MA 02139;
graybiel@mit.edu.

A universal need in understanding complex networks is the identification of
individual information channels and their mutual interactions under different
conditions. In neuroscience, our premier example, networks made up of billions of
nodes dynamically interact to bring about thought and action. Granger causality
is a powerful tool for identifying linear interactions, but handling nonlinear
interactions remains an unmet challenge. We present a nonlinear multidimensional 
hidden state (NMHS) approach that achieves interaction strength analysis and
decoding of networks with nonlinear interactions by including latent state
variables for each node in the network. We compare NMHS to Granger causality in
analyzing neural circuit recordings and simulations, improvised music, and
sociodemographic data. We conclude that NMHS significantly extends the scope of
analyses of multidimensional, nonlinear networks, notably in coping with the
complexity of the brain.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1606280113 
PMCID: PMC4988606
PMID: 27222584  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


68. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 7;113(23):6532-7. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1600760113. Epub 2016 May 24.

Single-cell twitching chemotaxis in developing biofilms.

Oliveira NM(1), Foster KR(2), Durham WM(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Zoology, University of Oxford, Oxford OX1 3PS, United Kingdom;
Oxford Centre for Integrative Systems Biology, University of Oxford, Oxford OX1
3PS, United Kingdom. (2)Department of Zoology, University of Oxford, Oxford OX1
3PS, United Kingdom; Oxford Centre for Integrative Systems Biology, University of
Oxford, Oxford OX1 3PS, United Kingdom kevin.foster@zoo.ox.ac.uk
william.durham@zoo.ox.ac.uk. (3)Department of Zoology, University of Oxford,
Oxford OX1 3PS, United Kingdom; kevin.foster@zoo.ox.ac.uk
william.durham@zoo.ox.ac.uk.

Bacteria form surface-attached communities, known as biofilms, which are central 
to bacterial biology and how they affect us. Although surface-attached bacteria
often experience strong chemical gradients, it remains unclear whether single
cells can effectively perform chemotaxis on surfaces. Here we use microfluidic
chemical gradients and massively parallel automated tracking to study the
behavior of the pathogen Pseudomonas aeruginosa during early biofilm development.
We show that individual cells can efficiently move toward chemoattractants using 
pili-based "twitching" motility and the Chp chemosensory system. Moreover, we
discovered the behavioral mechanism underlying this surface chemotaxis: Cells
reverse direction more frequently when moving away from chemoattractant sources. 
These corrective maneuvers are triggered rapidly, typically before a wayward cell
has ventured a fraction of a micron. Our work shows that single bacteria can
direct their motion with submicron precision and reveals the hidden potential for
chemotaxis within bacterial biofilms.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1600760113 
PMCID: PMC4988597
PMID: 27222583  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


69. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 7;113(23):6478-83. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1521645113. Epub 2016 May 24.

Molecular tandem repeat strategy for elucidating mechanical properties of
high-strength proteins.

Jung H(1), Pena-Francesch A(1), Saadat A(2), Sebastian A(3), Kim DH(4), Hamilton 
RF(1), Albert I(3), Allen BD(5), Demirel MC(6).

Author information: 
(1)Materials Research Institute, Pennsylvania State University, University Park, 
PA 16802; Department of Engineering Science and Mechanics, Pennsylvania State
University, University Park, PA 16802; (2)Department of Biochemistry and
Molecular Biology, Pennsylvania State University, University Park, PA 16802; The 
Huck Institutes of the Life Sciences, Pennsylvania State University, University
Park, PA 16802; (3)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Pennsylvania
State University, University Park, PA 16802; The Huck Institutes of the Life
Sciences, Pennsylvania State University, University Park, PA 16802;
Bioinformatics Consulting Center, Pennsylvania State University, University Park,
PA 16802; (4)Department of Biology, Pennsylvania State University, University
Park, PA 16802. (5)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Pennsylvania
State University, University Park, PA 16802; The Huck Institutes of the Life
Sciences, Pennsylvania State University, University Park, PA 16802; bda3@psu.edu 
mdemirel@engr.psu.edu. (6)Materials Research Institute, Pennsylvania State
University, University Park, PA 16802; Department of Engineering Science and
Mechanics, Pennsylvania State University, University Park, PA 16802; The Huck
Institutes of the Life Sciences, Pennsylvania State University, University Park, 
PA 16802; bda3@psu.edu mdemirel@engr.psu.edu.

Many globular and structural proteins have repetitions in their sequences or
structures. However, a clear relationship between these repeats and their
contribution to the mechanical properties remains elusive. We propose a new
approach for the design and production of synthetic polypeptides that comprise
one or more tandem copies of a single unit with distinct amorphous and ordered
regions. Our designed sequences are based on a structural protein produced in
squid suction cups that has a segmented copolymer structure with amorphous and
crystalline domains. We produced segmented polypeptides with varying repeat
number, while keeping the lengths and compositions of the amorphous and
crystalline regions fixed. We showed that mechanical properties of these
synthetic proteins could be tuned by modulating their molecular weights.
Specifically, the toughness and extensibility of synthetic polypeptides increase 
as a function of the number of tandem repeats. This result suggests that the
repetitions in native squid proteins could have a genetic advantage for increased
toughness and flexibility.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1521645113 
PMCID: PMC4988609
PMID: 27222581  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


70. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 7;113(23):6484-9. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1603386113. Epub 2016 May 24.

Cellular folding pathway of a metastable serpin.

Chandrasekhar K(1), Ke H(1), Wang N(2), Goodwin T(1), Gierasch LM(3), Gershenson 
A(2), Hebert DN(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, University of Massachusetts,
Amherst, MA 01003; (2)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology,
University of Massachusetts, Amherst, MA 01003; Program in Molecular and Cellular
Biology, University of Massachusetts, Amherst, MA 01003; (3)Department of
Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, University of Massachusetts, Amherst, MA
01003; Program in Molecular and Cellular Biology, University of Massachusetts,
Amherst, MA 01003; Department of Chemistry, University of Massachusetts, Amherst,
MA 01003. (4)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, University of
Massachusetts, Amherst, MA 01003; Program in Molecular and Cellular Biology,
University of Massachusetts, Amherst, MA 01003; dhebert@biochem.umass.edu.

Although proteins generally fold to their thermodynamically most stable state,
some metastable proteins populate higher free energy states. Conformational
changes from metastable higher free energy states to lower free energy states
with greater stability can then generate the work required to perform
physiologically important functions. However, how metastable proteins fold to
these higher free energy states in the cell and avoid more stable but inactive
conformations is poorly understood. The serpin family of metastable protease
inhibitors uses large conformational changes that are downhill in free energy to 
inhibit target proteases by pulling apart the protease active site. The serpin
antithrombin III (ATIII) targets thrombin and other proteases involved in blood
coagulation, and ATIII misfolding can thus lead to thrombosis and other diseases.
ATIII has three disulfide bonds, two near the N terminus and one near the C
terminus. Our studies of ATIII in-cell folding reveal a surprising, biased order 
of disulfide bond formation, with early formation of the C-terminal disulfide,
before formation of the N-terminal disulfides, critical for folding to the
active, metastable state. Early folding of the predominantly β-sheet ATIII domain
in this two-domain protein constrains the reactive center loop (RCL), which
contains the protease-binding site, ensuring that the RCL remains accessible.
N-linked glycans and carbohydrate-binding molecular chaperones contribute to the 
efficient folding and secretion of functional ATIII. The inability of a number of
disease-associated ATIII variants to navigate the folding reaction helps to
explain their disease phenotypes.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1603386113 
PMCID: PMC4988602
PMID: 27222580  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


71. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 7;113(23):6338-44. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1606335113. Epub 2016 May 24.

Typhoid toxin provides a window into typhoid fever and the biology of Salmonella 
Typhi.

Galán JE(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbial Pathogenesis, Yale University School of Medicine, New 
Haven, CT 06536 jorge.galan@yale.edu.

Salmonella Typhi is the cause of typhoid fever, a disease that has challenged
humans throughout history and continues to be a major public health concern.
Unlike infections with most other Salmonellae, which result in self-limiting
gastroenteritis, typhoid fever is a life-threatening systemic disease.
Furthermore, in contrast to most Salmonellae, which can infect a broad range of
hosts, S. Typhi is a strict human pathogen. The unique features of S. Typhi
pathogenesis and its stringent host specificity have been a long-standing puzzle.
The discovery of typhoid toxin not only has provided major insight into these
questions but also has offered unique opportunities to develop novel therapeutic 
and prevention strategies to combat typhoid fever.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1606335113 
PMCID: PMC4988619
PMID: 27222578  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


72. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 7;113(23):E3231-9. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1606381113. Epub 2016 May 23.

β1-subunit-induced structural rearrangements of the Ca2+- and voltage-activated
K+ (BK) channel.

Castillo JP(1), Sánchez-Rodríguez JE(2), Hyde HC(3), Zaelzer CA(4), Aguayo D(5), 
Sepúlveda RV(6), Luk LY(7), Kent SB(8), Gonzalez-Nilo FD(5), Bezanilla F(9),
Latorre R(10).

Author information: 
(1)Centro Interdisciplinario de Neurociencias de Valparaíso, Facultad de
Ciencias, Universidad de Valparaíso, Valparaiso 2360103, Chile; Departamento de
Biologia, Facultad de Ciencias, Universidad de Chile, Santiago 7800003, Chile;
(2)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, University of Chicago,
Chicago, IL 60637; Departamento de Física, Universidad de Guadalajara,
Guadalajara, Jalisco, 44430, Mexico; (3)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular 
Biology, University of Chicago, Chicago, IL 60637; (4)Centro Interdisciplinario
de Neurociencias de Valparaíso, Facultad de Ciencias, Universidad de Valparaíso, 
Valparaiso 2360103, Chile; (5)Centro Interdisciplinario de Neurociencias de
Valparaíso, Facultad de Ciencias, Universidad de Valparaíso, Valparaiso 2360103, 
Chile; Universidad Andrés Bello, Center for Bioinformatics and Integrative
Biology, Facultad de Ciencias Biológicas, Santiago 8370146, Chile; (6)Universidad
Andrés Bello, Center for Bioinformatics and Integrative Biology, Facultad de
Ciencias Biológicas, Santiago 8370146, Chile; (7)Department of Chemistry,
University of Chicago, Chicago, IL 60637. (8)Department of Biochemistry and
Molecular Biology, University of Chicago, Chicago, IL 60637; Department of
Chemistry, University of Chicago, Chicago, IL 60637. (9)Centro Interdisciplinario
de Neurociencias de Valparaíso, Facultad de Ciencias, Universidad de Valparaíso, 
Valparaiso 2360103, Chile; Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology,
University of Chicago, Chicago, IL 60637; fbezanilla@uchicago.edu
ramon.latorre@uv.cl. (10)Centro Interdisciplinario de Neurociencias de
Valparaíso, Facultad de Ciencias, Universidad de Valparaíso, Valparaiso 2360103, 
Chile; fbezanilla@uchicago.edu ramon.latorre@uv.cl.

Large-conductance Ca(2+)- and voltage-activated K(+) (BK) channels are involved
in a large variety of physiological processes. Regulatory β-subunits are one of
the mechanisms responsible for creating BK channel diversity fundamental to the
adequate function of many tissues. However, little is known about the structure
of its voltage sensor domain. Here, we present the external architectural details
of BK channels using lanthanide-based resonance energy transfer (LRET). We used a
genetically encoded lanthanide-binding tag (LBT) to bind terbium as a LRET donor 
and a fluorophore-labeled iberiotoxin as the LRET acceptor for measurements of
distances within the BK channel structure in a living cell. By introducing LBTs
in the extracellular region of the α- or β1-subunit, we determined (i) a basic
extracellular map of the BK channel, (ii) β1-subunit-induced rearrangements of
the voltage sensor in α-subunits, and (iii) the relative position of the
β1-subunit within the α/β1-subunit complex.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1606381113 
PMCID: PMC4988589
PMID: 27217576  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


73. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 7;113(23):6496-501. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1523580113. Epub 2016 May 23.

Root exudates drive interspecific facilitation by enhancing nodulation and N2
fixation.

Li B(1), Li YY(1), Wu HM(1), Zhang FF(1), Li CJ(1), Li XX(1), Lambers H(2), Li
L(3).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Plant-Soil Interactions, Ministry of Education, Beijing Key 
Laboratory of Biodiversity and Organic Farming, College of Resources and
Environmental Sciences, China Agricultural University, Beijing 100193, People's
Republic of China; (2)School of Plant Biology and Institute of Agriculture,
University of Western Australia, Crawley, Perth, WA 6009, Australia. (3)Key
Laboratory of Plant-Soil Interactions, Ministry of Education, Beijing Key
Laboratory of Biodiversity and Organic Farming, College of Resources and
Environmental Sciences, China Agricultural University, Beijing 100193, People's
Republic of China; lilong@cau.edu.cn.

Plant diversity in experimental systems often enhances ecosystem productivity,
but the mechanisms causing this overyielding are only partly understood.
Intercropping faba beans (Vicia faba L.) and maize (Zea mays L.) result in
overyielding and also, enhanced nodulation by faba beans. By using permeable and 
impermeable root barriers in a 2-y field experiment, we show that root-root
interactions between faba bean and maize significantly increase both nodulation
and symbiotic N2 fixation in intercropped faba bean. Furthermore, root exudates
from maize promote faba bean nodulation, whereas root exudates from wheat and
barley do not. Thus, a decline of soil nitrate concentrations caused by
intercropped cereals is not the sole mechanism for maize promoting faba bean
nodulation. Intercropped maize also caused a twofold increase in exudation of
flavonoids (signaling compounds for rhizobia) in the systems. Roots of faba bean 
treated with maize root exudates exhibited an immediate 11-fold increase in the
expression of chalcone-flavanone isomerase (involved in flavonoid synthesis) gene
together with a significantly increased expression of genes mediating nodulation 
and auxin response. After 35 d, faba beans treated with maize root exudate
continued to show up-regulation of key nodulation genes, such as early nodulin 93
(ENOD93), and promoted nitrogen fixation. Our results reveal a mechanism for how 
intercropped maize promotes nitrogen fixation of faba bean, where maize root
exudates promote flavonoid synthesis in faba bean, increase nodulation, and
stimulate nitrogen fixation after enhanced gene expression. These results
indicate facilitative root-root interactions and provide a mechanism for a
positive relationship between species diversity and ecosystem productivity.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1523580113 
PMCID: PMC4988560
PMID: 27217575  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


74. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 7;113(23):6562-7. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1600739113. Epub 2016 May 23.

Auxin-dependent compositional change in Mediator in ARF7- and ARF19-mediated
transcription.

Ito J(1), Fukaki H(2), Onoda M(1), Li L(3), Li C(3), Tasaka M(1), Furutani M(4).

Author information: 
(1)Graduate School of Biological Sciences, Nara Institute of Science and
Technology, Nara 630-0192, Japan; (2)Department of Biology, Graduate School of
Science, Kobe University, Kobe 657-8501, Japan; (3)Institute of Genetics and
Developmental Biology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100101, China.
(4)Graduate School of Biological Sciences, Nara Institute of Science and
Technology, Nara 630-0192, Japan; ma-furut@agr.nagoya-u.ac.jp.

Mediator is a multiprotein complex that integrates the signals from transcription
factors binding to the promoter and transmits them to achieve gene transcription.
The subunits of Mediator complex reside in four modules: the head, middle, tail, 
and dissociable CDK8 kinase module (CKM). The head, middle, and tail modules form
the core Mediator complex, and the association of CKM can modify the function of 
Mediator in transcription. Here, we show genetic and biochemical evidence that
CKM-associated Mediator transmits auxin-dependent transcriptional repression in
lateral root (LR) formation. The AUXIN/INDOLE 3-ACETIC ACID 14 (Aux/IAA14)
transcriptional repressor inhibits the transcriptional activity of its binding
partners AUXIN RESPONSE FACTOR 7 (ARF7) and ARF19 by making a complex with the
CKM-associated Mediator. In addition, TOPLESS (TPL), a transcriptional
corepressor, forms a bridge between IAA14 and the CKM component MED13 through the
physical interaction. ChIP assays show that auxin induces the dissociation of
MED13 but not the tail module component MED25 from the ARF7 binding region
upstream of its target gene. These findings indicate that auxin-induced
degradation of IAA14 changes the module composition of Mediator interacting with 
ARF7 and ARF19 in the upstream region of their target genes involved in LR
formation. We suggest that this regulation leads to a quick switch of signal
transmission from ARFs to target gene expression in response to auxin.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1600739113 
PMCID: PMC4988599
PMID: 27217573  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


75. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 7;113(23):6568-73. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1600019113. Epub 2016 May 23.

Millennial-scale sustainability of the Chesapeake Bay Native American oyster
fishery.

Rick TC(1), Reeder-Myers LA(2), Hofman CA(3), Breitburg D(4), Lockwood R(5),
Henkes G(6), Kellogg L(7), Lowery D(8), Luckenbach MW(7), Mann R(7), Ogburn
MB(4), Southworth M(7), Wah J(9), Wesson J(10), Hines AH(4).

Author information: 
(1)Program in Human Ecology and Archaeobiology, Department of Anthropology,
National Museum of Natural History, Smithsonian Institution, Washington, DC
20013; rickt@si.edu. (2)Program in Human Ecology and Archaeobiology, Department
of Anthropology, National Museum of Natural History, Smithsonian Institution,
Washington, DC 20013; (3)Program in Human Ecology and Archaeobiology, Department 
of Anthropology, National Museum of Natural History, Smithsonian Institution,
Washington, DC 20013; Department of Anthropology, University of Oklahoma, Norman,
OK 73019; (4)Smithsonian Environmental Research Center, Edgewater, MD 21037;
(5)Department of Geology, College of William and Mary, Williamsburg, VA 23187;
(6)Department of Earth and Planetary Sciences, Johns Hopkins University,
Baltimore, MD 21218; (7)Virginia Institute of Marine Science, College of William 
and Mary, Gloucester Point, VA 23062; (8)Chesapeake Watershed Archaeological
Resources, Easton, MD 21601; (9)Matapeake Soil, Shippensburg, PA 17257;
(10)Virginia Marine Resources Commission, Newport News, VA 23607.

Estuaries around the world are in a state of decline following decades or more of
overfishing, pollution, and climate change. Oysters (Ostreidae), ecosystem
engineers in many estuaries, influence water quality, construct habitat, and
provide food for humans and wildlife. In North America's Chesapeake Bay,
once-thriving eastern oyster (Crassostrea virginica) populations have declined
dramatically, making their restoration and conservation extremely challenging.
Here we present data on oyster size and human harvest from Chesapeake Bay
archaeological sites spanning ∼3,500 y of Native American, colonial, and
historical occupation. We compare oysters from archaeological sites with
Pleistocene oyster reefs that existed before human harvest, modern oyster reefs, 
and other records of human oyster harvest from around the world. Native American 
fisheries were focused on nearshore oysters and were likely harvested at a rate
that was sustainable over centuries to millennia, despite changing Holocene
climatic conditions and sea-level rise. These data document resilience in oyster 
populations under long-term Native American harvest, sea-level rise, and climate 
change; provide context for managing modern oyster fisheries in the Chesapeake
Bay and elsewhere around the world; and demonstrate an interdisciplinary approach
that can be applied broadly to other fisheries.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1600019113 
PMCID: PMC4988611
PMID: 27217572  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


76. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 7;113(23):6460-5. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1606119113. Epub 2016 May 23.

Probabilistic population projections with migration uncertainty.

Azose JJ(1), Ševčíková H(1), Raftery AE(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Statistics, Center for Statistics and the Social Sciences,
University of Washington, Seattle, WA 98195. (2)Department of Statistics, Center 
for Statistics and the Social Sciences, University of Washington, Seattle, WA
98195 raftery@uw.edu.

We produce probabilistic projections of population for all countries based on
probabilistic projections of fertility, mortality, and migration. We compare our 
projections to those from the United Nations' Probabilistic Population
Projections, which uses similar methods for fertility and mortality but
deterministic migration projections. We find that uncertainty in migration
projection is a substantial contributor to uncertainty in population projections 
for many countries. Prediction intervals for the populations of Northern America 
and Europe are over 70% wider, whereas prediction intervals for the populations
of Africa, Asia, and the world as a whole are nearly unchanged. Out-of-sample
validation shows that the model is reasonably well calibrated.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1606119113 
PMCID: PMC4988608
PMID: 27217571  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


77. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 7;113(23):6520-5. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1606276113. Epub 2016 May 23.

Developmental cell death programs license cytotoxic cells to eliminate
histocompatible partners.

Corey DM(1), Rosental B(2), Kowarsky M(3), Sinha R(2), Ishizuka KJ(2), Palmeri
KJ(2), Quake SR(4), Voskoboynik A(5), Weissman IL(6).

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Stem Cell Biology and Regenerative Medicine, Stanford University
School of Medicine, Stanford, CA 94305; Division of Hematology, Stanford
University School of Medicine, Stanford, CA 94305; dcorey@stanford.edu
irv@stanford.edu. (2)Institute for Stem Cell Biology and Regenerative Medicine,
Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, CA 94305; (3)Department of
Applied Physics, Stanford University, Stanford, CA 94305; Department of
Bioengineering, Stanford University, Stanford, CA 94305; Howard Hughes Medical
Institute, Stanford University, Stanford, CA 94305; (4)Institute for Stem Cell
Biology and Regenerative Medicine, Stanford University School of Medicine,
Stanford, CA 94305; Department of Applied Physics, Stanford University, Stanford,
CA 94305; Department of Bioengineering, Stanford University, Stanford, CA 94305; 
Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Stanford University, Stanford, CA 94305;
(5)Institute for Stem Cell Biology and Regenerative Medicine, Stanford University
School of Medicine, Stanford, CA 94305; Department of Pathology, Hopkins Marine
Station, Stanford University, Pacific Grove, CA 93950; (6)Institute for Stem Cell
Biology and Regenerative Medicine, Stanford University School of Medicine,
Stanford, CA 94305; Department of Pathology, Hopkins Marine Station, Stanford
University, Pacific Grove, CA 93950; Ludwig Center for Cancer Stem Cell Research 
and Medicine, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, CA 94305
dcorey@stanford.edu irv@stanford.edu.

In a primitive chordate model of natural chimerism, one chimeric partner is often
eliminated in a process of allogeneic resorption. Here, we identify the cellular 
framework underlying loss of tolerance to one partner within a natural Botryllus 
schlosseri chimera. We show that the principal cell type mediating chimeric
partner elimination is a cytotoxic morula cell (MC). Proinflammatory,
developmental cell death programs render MCs cytotoxic and, in collaboration with
activated phagocytes, eliminate chimeric partners during the "takeover" phase of 
blastogenic development. Among these genes, the proinflammatory cytokine IL-17
enhances cytotoxicity in allorecognition assays. Cellular transfer of
FACS-purified MCs from allogeneic donors into recipients shows that the
resorption response can be adoptively acquired. Transfer of 1 × 10(5) allogeneic 
MCs eliminated 33 of 78 (42%) recipient primary buds and 20 of 76 (20.5%) adult
parental adult organisms (zooids) by 14 d whereas transfer of allogeneic cell
populations lacking MCs had only minimal effects on recipient colonies.
Furthermore, reactivity of transferred cells coincided with the onset of
developmental-regulated cell death programs and disproportionately affected
developing tissues within a chimera. Among chimeric partner "losers," severe
developmental defects were observed in asexually propagating tissues, reflecting 
a pathologic switch in gene expression in developmental programs. These studies
provide evidence that elimination of one partner in a chimera is an immune
cell-based rejection that operates within histocompatible pairs and that maximal 
allogeneic responses involve the coordination of both phagocytic programs and the
"arming" of cytotoxic cells.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1606276113 
PMCID: PMC4988592
PMID: 27217570  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


78. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 7;113(23):6403-8. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1605002113. Epub 2016 May 23.

Enzymatically enhanced collisions on ultramicroelectrodes for specific and rapid 
detection of individual viruses.

Dick JE(1), Hilterbrand AT(2), Strawsine LM(1), Upton JW(2), Bard AJ(3).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Electrochemistry, Department of Chemistry, The University of Texas 
at Austin, Austin, TX 78712; (2)Department of Molecular Biosciences, LaMontagne
Center for Infectious Disease, and Institute for Cellular and Molecular Biology, 
The University of Texas at Austin, Austin, TX 78712. (3)Center for
Electrochemistry, Department of Chemistry, The University of Texas at Austin,
Austin, TX 78712; ajbard@cm.utexas.edu.

We report the specific collision of a single murine cytomegalovirus (MCMV) on a
platinum ultramicroelectrode (UME, radius of 1 μm). Antibody directed against the
viral surface protein glycoprotein B functionalized with glucose oxidase (GOx)
allowed for specific detection of the virus in solution and a biological sample
(urine). The oxidation of ferrocene methanol to ferrocenium methanol was carried 
out at the electrode surface, and the ferrocenium methanol acted as the
cosubstrate to GOx to catalyze the oxidation of glucose to gluconolactone. In the
presence of glucose, the incident collision of a GOx-covered virus onto the UME
while ferrocene methanol was being oxidized produced stepwise increases in
current as observed by amperometry. These current increases were observed due to 
the feedback loop of ferrocene methanol to the surface of the electrode after GOx
reduces ferrocenium methanol back to ferrocene. Negative controls (i) without
glucose, (ii) with an irrelevant virus (murine gammaherpesvirus 68), and (iii)
without either virus do not display these current increases. Stepwise current
decreases were observed for the prior two negative controls and no discrete
events were observed for the latter. We further apply this method to the
detection of MCMV in urine of infected mice. The method provides for a selective,
rapid, and sensitive detection technique based on electrochemical collisions.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1605002113 
PMCID: PMC4988591
PMID: 27217569  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


79. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 7;113(23):E3213-20. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1600509113. Epub 2016 May 23.

O-linked N-acetylglucosamine transferase (OGT) interacts with the histone
chaperone HIRA complex and regulates nucleosome assembly and cellular senescence.

Lee JS(1), Zhang Z(2).

Author information: 
(1)Mayo Graduate School, Biochemistry and Molecular Biology Track, Mayo Clinic
College of Medicine, Rochester, MN 55905; (2)Mayo Graduate School, Biochemistry
and Molecular Biology Track, Mayo Clinic College of Medicine, Rochester, MN
55905; Epigenomics Developmental Program, Center for Individualized Medicine,
Mayo Clinic College of Medicine, Rochester, MN 55905 zhang.zhiguo@mayo.edu.

The histone chaperone HIRA complex, consisting of histone cell cycle regulator
(HIRA), Ubinuclein1 (UBN1), and calcineurin binding protein 1 (CABIN1), deposits 
histone variant H3.3 to genic regions and regulates gene expression in various
cellular processes, including cellular senescence. How HIRA-mediated nucleosome
assembly of H3.3-H4 is regulated remains not well understood. Here, we show that 
O-linked N-acetylglucosamine (GlcNAc) transferase (OGT), an enzyme that catalyzes
O-GlcNAcylation of serine or threonine residues, interacts with UBN1, modifies
HIRA, and promotes nucleosome assembly of H3.3. Depletion of OGT or expression of
the HIRA S231A O-GlcNAcylation-deficient mutant compromises formation of the
HIRA-H3.3 complex and H3.3 nucleosome assembly. Importantly, OGT depletion or
expression of the HIRA S231A mutant delays premature cellular senescence in
primary human fibroblasts, whereas overexpression of OGT accelerates senescence. 
Taken together, these results support a model in which OGT modifies HIRA to
regulate HIRA-H3.3 complex formation and H3.3 nucleosome assembly and reveal the 
mechanism by which OGT functions in cellular senescence.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1600509113 
PMCID: PMC4988580
PMID: 27217568  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


80. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 7;113(23):6444-8. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1601465113. Epub 2016 May 23.

Revealing a 5,000-y-old beer recipe in China.

Wang J(1), Liu L(2), Ball T(3), Yu L(4), Li Y(5), Xing F(6).

Author information: 
(1)Stanford Archaeology Center, Stanford University, Stanford, CA 94305;
Department of East Asian Languages and Cultures, Stanford University, Stanford,
CA 94305; jiajingw@stanford.edu. (2)Stanford Archaeology Center, Stanford
University, Stanford, CA 94305; Department of East Asian Languages and Cultures, 
Stanford University, Stanford, CA 94305; (3)Department of Ancient Scripture,
Brigham Young University, Provo, UT 84602; (4)Zhejiang Research Institute of
Chemical Industry, 310006 Hangzhou, China; (5)Department of Civil and
Environmental Engineering, Stanford University, Stanford, CA 94305; (6)Shaanxi
Provincial Institute of Archaeology, 710054 Xi'an, China.

The pottery vessels from the Mijiaya site reveal, to our knowledge, the first
direct evidence of in situ beer making in China, based on the analyses of starch,
phytolith, and chemical residues. Our data reveal a surprising beer recipe in
which broomcorn millet (Panicum miliaceum), barley (Hordeum vulgare), Job's tears
(Coix lacryma-jobi), and tubers were fermented together. The results indicate
that people in China established advanced beer-brewing technology by using
specialized tools and creating favorable fermentation conditions around 5,000 y
ago. Our findings imply that early beer making may have motivated the initial
translocation of barley from the Western Eurasia into the Central Plain of China 
before the crop became a part of agricultural subsistence in the region 3,000 y
later.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1601465113 
PMCID: PMC4988576
PMID: 27217567  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


81. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 7;113(23):6449-53. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1525688113. Epub 2016 May 23.

Unacquainted callers can predict which citizens will vote over and above
citizens' stated self-predictions.

Rogers T(1), Ten Brinke L(2), Carney DR(3).

Author information: 
(1)Harvard Kennedy School, Harvard University, Cambridge, MA 02138;
Todd_Rogers@hks.harvard.edu. (2)Haas School of Business and Department of
Psychology, University of California, Berkeley, CA 94720; (3)Haas School of
Business, University of California, Berkeley, CA 94720.

People are regularly asked to report on their likelihoods of carrying out
consequential future behaviors, including complying with medical advice,
completing educational assignments, and voting in upcoming elections. Despite
these stated self-predictions being notoriously unreliable, they are used to
inform many strategic decisions. We report two studies examining stated
self-prediction about whether citizens will vote. We find that most
self-predicted voters do not actually vote despite saying they will, and that
campaign callers can discern which self-predicted voters will not actually vote. 
In study 1 (n = 4,463), self-predicted voters rated by callers as "100% likely to
vote" were 2 times more likely to actually vote than those rated unlikely to
vote. Study 2 (n = 3,064) replicated this finding and further demonstrated that
callers' prediction accuracy was mediated by citizens' nonverbal signals of
uncertainty and deception. Strangers can use nonverbal signals to improve
predictions of follow through on self-reported intentions-an insight of potential
value for politics, medicine, and education.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1525688113 
PMCID: PMC4988572
PMID: 27217566  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


82. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 7;113(23):6472-7. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1523677113. Epub 2016 May 23.

Neonatal postcrania from Mezmaiskaya, Russia, and Le Moustier, France, and the
development of Neandertal body form.

Weaver TD(1), Coqueugniot H(2), Golovanova LV(3), Doronichev VB(3), Maureille
B(4), Hublin JJ(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anthropology, University of California, Davis, CA 95616;
Department of Human Evolution, Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary
Anthropology, 04103 Leipzig, Germany; tdweaver@ucdavis.edu. (2)Department of
Human Evolution, Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology, 04103
Leipzig, Germany; CNRS, UMR 5199 PACEA, Université de Bordeaux, Ministère de la
Culture et de la Communication, 33615 Pessac, France; Laboratoire d'Anthropologie
biologique Paul Broca, École Pratique des Hautes Études, UMR 5199 PACEA, 33615
Pessac, France; (3)Laboratory of Prehistory, St. Petersburg 199034, Russia.
(4)CNRS, UMR 5199 PACEA, Université de Bordeaux, Ministère de la Culture et de la
Communication, 33615 Pessac, France; (5)Department of Human Evolution, Max Planck
Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology, 04103 Leipzig, Germany;

Neandertal and modern human adults differ in skeletal features of the cranium and
postcranium, and it is clear that many of the cranial differences-although not
all of them-are already present at the time of birth. We know less, however,
about the developmental origins of the postcranial differences. Here, we address 
this deficiency with morphometric analyses of the postcrania of the two most
complete Neandertal neonates-Mezmaiskaya 1 (from Russia) and Le Moustier 2 (from 
France)-and a recent human sample. We find that neonatal Neandertals already
appear to possess the wide body, long pubis, and robust long bones of adult
Neandertals. Taken together, current evidence indicates that skeletal differences
between Neandertals and modern humans are largely established by the time of
birth.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1523677113 
PMCID: PMC4988559
PMID: 27217565  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


83. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 7;113(23):6421-6. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1522305113. Epub 2016 May 23.

Mobile phone data highlights the role of mass gatherings in the spreading of
cholera outbreaks.

Finger F(1), Genolet T(1), Mari L(2), de Magny GC(3), Manga NM(4), Rinaldo A(5), 
Bertuzzo E(6).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Ecohydrology, École Polytechnique Fédérale Lausanne, 1015
Lausanne, Switzerland; (2)Dipartimento di Elettronica, Informazione e
Bioingegneria, Politecnico di Milano, 20133 Milano, Italy; (3)Maladies
Infectieuses et Vecteurs: Ecologie, Génétique, Evolution et Contrôle, Institute
of Research for Development, 64501 Montpellier, France; (4)Service des Maladies
Infectieuses et Tropicales de l'Hôpital de la Paix, Unité de Formation et de
Recherche en Sciences de la Santé, Université Assane Seck de Ziguinchor, 27000
Ziguinchor, Senegal; (5)Laboratory of Ecohydrology, École Polytechnique Fédérale 
Lausanne, 1015 Lausanne, Switzerland; Dipartimento dell'Ingegneria Civile, Edile 
ed Ambientale, Università di Padova, 35131 Padova, Italy andrea.rinaldo@epfl.ch
enrico.bertuzzo@epfl.ch. (6)Laboratory of Ecohydrology, École Polytechnique
Fédérale Lausanne, 1015 Lausanne, Switzerland; andrea.rinaldo@epfl.ch
enrico.bertuzzo@epfl.ch.

The spatiotemporal evolution of human mobility and the related fluctuations of
population density are known to be key drivers of the dynamics of infectious
disease outbreaks. These factors are particularly relevant in the case of mass
gatherings, which may act as hotspots of disease transmission and spread.
Understanding these dynamics, however, is usually limited by the lack of accurate
data, especially in developing countries. Mobile phone call data provide a new,
first-order source of information that allows the tracking of the evolution of
mobility fluxes with high resolution in space and time. Here, we analyze a
dataset of mobile phone records of ∼150,000 users in Senegal to extract human
mobility fluxes and directly incorporate them into a spatially explicit, dynamic 
epidemiological framework. Our model, which also takes into account other drivers
of disease transmission such as rainfall, is applied to the 2005 cholera outbreak
in Senegal, which totaled more than 30,000 reported cases. Our findings highlight
the major influence that a mass gathering, which took place during the initial
phase of the outbreak, had on the course of the epidemic. Such an effect could
not be explained by classic, static approaches describing human mobility. Model
results also show how concentrated efforts toward disease control in a
transmission hotspot could have an important effect on the large-scale
progression of an outbreak.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1522305113 
PMCID: PMC4988598
PMID: 27217564  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


84. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 7;113(23):6490-5. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1523157113. Epub 2016 May 23.

Aurora kinase-induced phosphorylation excludes transcription factor RUNX from the
chromatin to facilitate proper mitotic progression.

Chuang LS(1), Khor JM(1), Lai SK(2), Garg S(1), Krishnan V(1), Koh CG(2), Lee
SH(3), Ito Y(4).

Author information: 
(1)Cancer Science Institute of Singapore, National University of Singapore,
Singapore 117599; (2)School of Biological Sciences, Nanyang Technological
University, Singapore 637551; (3)Program in Cancer and Stem Cell Biology,
Duke-NUS Graduate Medical School, Singapore 169857. (4)Cancer Science Institute
of Singapore, National University of Singapore, Singapore 117599;
csiitoy@nus.edu.sg.

The Runt-related transcription factors (RUNX) are master regulators of
development and major players in tumorigenesis. Interestingly, unlike most
transcription factors, RUNX proteins are detected on the mitotic chromatin and
apparatus, suggesting that they are functionally active in mitosis. Here, we
identify key sites of RUNX phosphorylation in mitosis. We show that the
phosphorylation of threonine 173 (T173) residue within the Runt domain of RUNX3
disrupts RUNX DNA binding activity during mitotic entry to facilitate the
recruitment of RUNX proteins to mitotic structures. Moreover, knockdown of RUNX3 
delays mitotic entry. RUNX3 phosphorylation is therefore a regulatory mechanism
for mitotic entry. Cancer-associated mutations of RUNX3 T173 and its equivalent
in RUNX1 further corroborate the role of RUNX phosphorylation in regulating
proper mitotic progression and genomic integrity.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1523157113 
PMCID: PMC4988568
PMID: 27217562  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


85. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 7;113(23):6514-9. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1605113113. Epub 2016 May 23.

Spliceosomal intronogenesis.

Lee S(1), Stevens SW(2).

Author information: 
(1)Graduate Program in Cellular and Molecular Biology, The University of Texas at
Austin, Austin, TX 78712; (2)Department of Molecular Biosciences, The University 
of Texas at Austin, Austin, TX 78712; Institute for Cellular and Molecular
Biology, The University of Texas at Austin, Austin, TX 78712
scott.stevens@austin.utexas.edu.

The presence of intervening sequences, termed introns, is a defining
characteristic of eukaryotic nuclear genomes. Once transcribed into pre-mRNA,
these introns must be removed within the spliceosome before export of the
processed mRNA to the cytoplasm, where it is translated into protein. Although
intron loss has been demonstrated experimentally, several mysteries remain
regarding the origin and propagation of introns. Indeed, documented evidence of
gain of an intron has only been suggested by phylogenetic analyses. We report the
use of a strategy that detects selected intron gain and loss events. We have
experimentally verified, to our knowledge, the first demonstrations of intron
transposition in any organism. From our screen, we detected two separate intron
gain events characterized by the perfect transposition of a reporter intron into 
the yeast genes RPL8B and ADH2, respectively. We show that the newly acquired
introns are able to be removed from their respective pre-mRNAs by the
spliceosome. Additionally, the novel allele, RPL8Bint, is functional when
overexpressed within the genome in a strain lacking the Rpl8 paralogue RPL8A,
demonstrating that the gene targeted for intronogenesis is functional.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1605113113 
PMCID: PMC4988565
PMID: 27217561  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


86. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 21;113(25):6874-9. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1506752113. Epub 2016 May 23.

Extraordinary intelligence and the care of infants.

Piantadosi ST(1), Kidd C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Brain and Cognitive Sciences, University of Rochester,
Rochester, NY 14627 spiantad@ur.rochester.edu ckidd@ur.rochester.edu.

Comment on
    Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 21;113(25):6816-8.

We present evidence that pressures for early childcare may have been one of the
driving factors of human evolution. We show through an evolutionary model that
runaway selection for high intelligence may occur when (i) altricial neonates
require intelligent parents, (ii) intelligent parents must have large brains, and
(iii) large brains necessitate having even more altricial offspring. We test a
prediction of this account by showing across primate genera that the helplessness
of infants is a particularly strong predictor of the adults' intelligence. We
discuss related implications, including this account's ability to explain why
human-level intelligence evolved specifically in mammals. This theory complements
prior hypotheses that link human intelligence to social reasoning and
reproductive pressures and explains how human intelligence may have become so
distinctive compared with our closest evolutionary relatives.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1506752113 
PMCID: PMC4922193
PMID: 27217560  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


87. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 7;113(23):E3280-9. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1522180113. Epub 2016 May 23.

Active dendrites regulate the impact of gliotransmission on rat hippocampal
pyramidal neurons.

Ashhad S(1), Narayanan R(2).

Author information: 
(1)Cellular Neurophysiology Laboratory, Molecular Biophysics Unit, Indian
Institute of Science, Bangalore 560012, India. (2)Cellular Neurophysiology
Laboratory, Molecular Biophysics Unit, Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore
560012, India rishi@mbu.iisc.ernet.in.

An important consequence of gliotransmission, a signaling mechanism that involves
glial release of active transmitter molecules, is its manifestation as
N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor (NMDAR)-dependent slow inward currents in neurons. 
However, the intraneuronal spatial dynamics of these events or the role of active
dendrites in regulating their amplitude and spatial spread have remained
unexplored. Here, we used somatic and/or dendritic recordings from rat
hippocampal pyramidal neurons and demonstrate that a majority of NMDAR-dependent 
spontaneous slow excitatory potentials (SEP) originate at dendritic locations and
are significantly attenuated through their propagation across the neuronal arbor.
We substantiated the astrocytic origin of SEPs through paired neuron-astrocyte
recordings, where we found that specific infusion of inositol trisphosphate
(InsP3) into either distal or proximal astrocytes enhanced the amplitude and
frequency of neuronal SEPs. Importantly, SEPs recorded after InsP3 infusion into 
distal astrocytes exhibited significantly slower kinetics compared with those
recorded after proximal infusion. Furthermore, using neuron-specific infusion of 
pharmacological agents and morphologically realistic conductance-based
computational models, we demonstrate that dendritically expressed
hyperpolarization-activated cyclic-nucleotide-gated (HCN) and transient potassium
channels play critical roles in regulating the strength, kinetics, and
compartmentalization of neuronal SEPs. Finally, through the application of
subtype-specific receptor blockers during paired neuron-astrocyte recordings, we 
provide evidence that GluN2B- and GluN2D-containing NMDARs predominantly mediate 
perisomatic and dendritic SEPs, respectively. Our results unveil an important
role for active dendrites in regulating the impact of gliotransmission on neurons
and suggest astrocytes as a source of dendritic plateau potentials that have been
implicated in localized plasticity and place cell formation.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1522180113 
PMCID: PMC4988595
PMID: 27217559  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


88. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 7;113(23):E3193-202. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1600406113. Epub 2016 May 23.

Nanospherical arabinogalactan proteins are a key component of the high-strength
adhesive secreted by English ivy.

Huang Y(1), Wang Y(1), Tan L(2), Sun L(1), Petrosino J(3), Cui MZ(4), Hao F(4),
Zhang M(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering, College of Engineering, The Ohio State
University, Columbus, OH 43210; Interdisciplinary Biophysics Graduate Program,
The Ohio State University, Columbus, OH 43210; Dorothy M. Davis Heart & Lung
Research Institute, The Ohio State University Wexner Medical Center, Columbus, OH
43210; (2)Complex Carbohydrate Research Center, University of Georgia, Athens, GA
30602; DOE BioEnergy Science Center, University of Georgia, Athens, GA 30602;
(3)Dorothy M. Davis Heart & Lung Research Institute, The Ohio State University
Wexner Medical Center, Columbus, OH 43210; (4)Department of Biomedical and
Diagnostic Sciences, College of Veterinary Medicine, University of Tennessee,
Knoxville, TN 37996. (5)Department of Biomedical Engineering, College of
Engineering, The Ohio State University, Columbus, OH 43210; Interdisciplinary
Biophysics Graduate Program, The Ohio State University, Columbus, OH 43210;
Dorothy M. Davis Heart & Lung Research Institute, The Ohio State University
Wexner Medical Center, Columbus, OH 43210; zhang.4882@osu.edu.

Over 130 y have passed since Charles Darwin first discovered that the
adventitious roots of English ivy (Hedera helix) exude a yellowish mucilage that 
promotes the capacity of this plant to climb vertical surfaces. Unfortunately,
little progress has been made in elucidating the adhesion mechanisms underlying
this high-strength adhesive. In the previous studies, spherical nanoparticles
were observed in the viscous exudate. Here we show that these nanoparticles are
predominantly composed of arabinogalactan proteins (AGPs), a superfamily of
hydroxyproline-rich glycoproteins present in the extracellular spaces of plant
cells. The spheroidal shape of the AGP-rich ivy nanoparticles results in a low
viscosity of the ivy adhesive, and thus a favorable wetting behavior on the
surface of substrates. Meanwhile, calcium-driven electrostatic interactions among
carboxyl groups of the AGPs and the pectic acids give rise to the cross-linking
of the exuded adhesive substances, favor subsequent curing (hardening) via
formation of an adhesive film, and eventually promote the generation of
mechanical interlocking between the adventitious roots of English ivy and the
surface of substrates. Inspired by these molecular events, a reconstructed
ivy-mimetic adhesive composite was developed by integrating purified AGP-rich ivy
nanoparticles with pectic polysaccharides and calcium ions. Information gained
from the subsequent tensile tests, in turn, substantiated the proposed adhesion
mechanisms underlying the ivy-derived adhesive. Given that AGPs and pectic
polysaccharides are also observed in bioadhesives exuded by other climbing
plants, the adhesion mechanisms revealed by English ivy may forward the progress 
toward understanding the general principles underlying diverse botanic adhesives.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1600406113 
PMCID: PMC4988582
PMID: 27217558  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


89. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 7;113(23):6454-9. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1521897113. Epub 2016 May 23.

Contextual sensitivity in scientific reproducibility.

Van Bavel JJ(1), Mende-Siedlecki P(2), Brady WJ(2), Reinero DA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, New York University, New York, NY 10003
jay.vanbavel@nyu.edu. (2)Department of Psychology, New York University, New York,
NY 10003.

In recent years, scientists have paid increasing attention to reproducibility.
For example, the Reproducibility Project, a large-scale replication attempt of
100 studies published in top psychology journals found that only 39% could be
unambiguously reproduced. There is a growing consensus among scientists that the 
lack of reproducibility in psychology and other fields stems from various
methodological factors, including low statistical power, researcher's degrees of 
freedom, and an emphasis on publishing surprising positive results. However,
there is a contentious debate about the extent to which failures to reproduce
certain results might also reflect contextual differences (often termed "hidden
moderators") between the original research and the replication attempt. Although 
psychologists have found extensive evidence that contextual factors alter
behavior, some have argued that context is unlikely to influence the results of
direct replications precisely because these studies use the same methods as those
used in the original research. To help resolve this debate, we recoded the 100
original studies from the Reproducibility Project on the extent to which the
research topic of each study was contextually sensitive. Results suggested that
the contextual sensitivity of the research topic was associated with replication 
success, even after statistically adjusting for several methodological
characteristics (e.g., statistical power, effect size). The association between
contextual sensitivity and replication success did not differ across
psychological subdisciplines. These results suggest that researchers,
replicators, and consumers should be mindful of contextual factors that might
influence a psychological process. We offer several guidelines for dealing with
contextual sensitivity in reproducibility.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1521897113 
PMCID: PMC4988618
PMID: 27217556  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


90. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 7;113(23):E3290-9. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1606348113. Epub 2016 May 23.

Osmoregulatory inositol transporter SMIT1 modulates electrical activity by
adjusting PI(4,5)P2 levels.

Dai G(1), Yu H(1), Kruse M(1), Traynor-Kaplan A(2), Hille B(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Biophysics, University of Washington School of
Medicine, Seattle, WA 98195; (2)ATK Innovation Analytics & Discovery, North Bend,
WA 98045; Division of Gastroenterology, Department of Medicine, University of
Washington, Seattle, WA 98195. (3)Department of Physiology and Biophysics,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA 98195; hille@uw.edu.

Myo-inositol is an important cellular osmolyte in autoregulation of cell volume
and fluid balance, particularly for mammalian brain and kidney cells. We find it 
also regulates excitability. Myo-inositol is the precursor of phosphoinositides, 
key signaling lipids including phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate [PI(4,5)P2].
However, whether myo-inositol accumulation during osmoregulation affects
signaling and excitability has not been fully explored. We found that
overexpression of the Na(+)/myo-inositol cotransporter (SMIT1) and myo-inositol
supplementation enlarged intracellular PI(4,5)P2 pools, modulated several
PI(4,5)P2-dependent ion channels including KCNQ2/3 channels, and attenuated the
action potential firing of superior cervical ganglion neurons. Further
experiments using the rapamycin-recruitable phosphatase Sac1 to hydrolyze PI(4)P 
and the P4M probe to visualize PI(4)P suggested that PI(4)P levels increased
after myo-inositol supplementation with SMIT1 expression. Elevated relative
levels of PIP and PIP2 were directly confirmed using mass spectrometry. Inositol 
trisphosphate production and release of calcium from intracellular stores also
were augmented after myo-inositol supplementation. Finally, we found that
treatment with a hypertonic solution mimicked the effect we observed with SMIT1
overexpression, whereas silencing tonicity-responsive enhancer binding protein
prevented these effects. These results show that ion channel function and
cellular excitability are under regulation by several "physiological"
manipulations that alter the PI(4,5)P2 setpoint. We demonstrate a previously
unrecognized linkage between extracellular osmotic changes and the electrical
properties of excitable cells.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1606348113 
PMCID: PMC4988571
PMID: 27217553  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


91. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 7;113(23):6466-71. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1523245113. Epub 2016 May 23.

Social networks and environmental outcomes.

Barnes ML(1), Lynham J(2), Kalberg K(3), Leung P(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Management, University of
Hawaii at Manoa, Honolulu, HI 96822; Department of Botany, University of Hawaii
at Manoa, Honolulu, HI 96822; Joint Institute for Marine and Atmospheric
Research, University of Hawaii at Manoa, Honolulu, HI 96822; Australian Research 
Council Centre of Excellence for Coral Reef Studies, James Cook University,
Townsville, QLD 4811, Australia; michele.barnes@jcu.edu.au. (2)Department of
Economics, University of Hawaii at Manoa, Honolulu, HI 96822; University of
Hawaii Economic Research Organization, University of Hawaii at Manoa, Honolulu,
HI 96822. (3)Joint Institute for Marine and Atmospheric Research, University of
Hawaii at Manoa, Honolulu, HI 96822; (4)Department of Natural Resources and
Environmental Management, University of Hawaii at Manoa, Honolulu, HI 96822;

Social networks can profoundly affect human behavior, which is the primary force 
driving environmental change. However, empirical evidence linking microlevel
social interactions to large-scale environmental outcomes has remained scarce.
Here, we leverage comprehensive data on information-sharing networks among
large-scale commercial tuna fishers to examine how social networks relate to
shark bycatch, a global environmental issue. We demonstrate that the tendency for
fishers to primarily share information within their ethnic group creates
segregated networks that are strongly correlated with shark bycatch. However,
some fishers share information across ethnic lines, and examinations of their
bycatch rates show that network contacts are more strongly related to fishing
behaviors than ethnicity. Our findings indicate that social networks are tied to 
actions that can directly impact marine ecosystems, and that biases toward
within-group ties may impede the diffusion of sustainable behaviors. Importantly,
our analysis suggests that enhanced communication channels across segregated
fisher groups could have prevented the incidental catch of over 46,000 sharks
between 2008 and 2012 in a single commercial fishery.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1523245113 
PMCID: PMC4988561
PMID: 27217551  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


92. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 7;113(23):6550-5. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1605019113. Epub 2016 May 20.

Medial septal GABAergic projection neurons promote object exploration behavior
and type 2 theta rhythm.

Gangadharan G(1), Shin J(2), Kim SW(1), Kim A(1), Paydar A(1), Kim DS(3),
Miyazaki T(4), Watanabe M(4), Yanagawa Y(5), Kim J(6), Kim YS(7), Kim D(8), Shin 
HS(9).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Cognition and Sociality, Institute for Basic Science, Daejeon
305-308, Korea; (2)Department of Psychiatry and Biobehavioral Sciences,
University of California, Los Angeles David Geffen School of Medicine, Los
Angeles, CA 90095-6948; (3)Department of Anatomy, College of Medicine,
Soonchunhyang University, Cheonan-Si 330-930, Korea; (4)Department of Anatomy,
Hokkaido University School of Medicine, Sapporo 060-8638, Japan; (5)Department of
Genetic and Behavioral Neuroscience, Gunma University Graduate School of
Medicine, Maebashi 371-8511, Japan; (6)Center for Functional Connectomics, Korea 
Institute of Science and Technology, Seoul 136-791, Korea; (7)Graduate School of 
New Drug Discovery & Development, Chungnam National University, Daejeon 305-764, 
Korea; (8)Department of Biological Sciences, Korea Advanced Institute of Science 
and Technology, Daejeon 305-701, Korea. (9)Center for Cognition and Sociality,
Institute for Basic Science, Daejeon 305-308, Korea; shin@ibs.re.kr.

Exploratory drive is one of the most fundamental emotions, of all organisms, that
are evoked by novelty stimulation. Exploratory behavior plays a fundamental role 
in motivation, learning, and well-being of organisms. Diverse exploratory
behaviors have been described, although their heterogeneity is not certain
because of the lack of solid experimental evidence for their distinction. Here we
present results demonstrating that different neural mechanisms underlie different
exploratory behaviors. Localized Cav3.1 knockdown in the medial septum (MS)
selectively enhanced object exploration, whereas the null mutant (KO) mice showed
enhanced-object exploration as well as open-field exploration. In MS knockdown
mice, only type 2 hippocampal theta rhythm was enhanced, whereas both type 1 and 
type 2 theta rhythm were enhanced in KO mice. This selective effect was
accompanied by markedly increased excitability of septo-hippocampal GABAergic
projection neurons in the MS lacking T-type Ca(2+) channels. Furthermore,
optogenetic activation of the septo-hippocampal GABAergic pathway in WT mice also
selectively enhanced object exploration behavior and type 2 theta rhythm, whereas
inhibition of the same pathway decreased the behavior and the rhythm. These
findings define object exploration distinguished from open-field exploration and 
reveal a critical role of T-type Ca(2+) channels in the medial septal GABAergic
projection neurons in this behavior.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1605019113 
PMCID: PMC4988581
PMID: 27208094  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


93. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 7;113(23):E3300-6. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1605973113. Epub 2016 May 20.

Combinatorial effects of odorants on mouse behavior.

Saraiva LR(1), Kondoh K(1), Ye X(1), Yoon KH(1), Hernandez M(1), Buck LB(2).

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Basic Sciences Division, Fred Hutchinson
Cancer Research Center, Seattle, WA 98109. (2)Howard Hughes Medical Institute,
Basic Sciences Division, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Seattle, WA
98109 lbuck@fhcrc.org.

The mechanisms by which odors induce instinctive behaviors are largely unknown.
Odor detection in the mouse nose is mediated by >1, 000 different odorant
receptors (ORs) and trace amine-associated receptors (TAARs). Odor perceptions
are encoded combinatorially by ORs and can be altered by slight changes in the
combination of activated receptors. However, the stereotyped nature of
instinctive odor responses suggests the involvement of specific receptors and
genetically programmed neural circuits relatively immune to extraneous odor
stimuli and receptor inputs. Here, we report that, contrary to expectation,
innate odor-induced behaviors can be context-dependent. First, different ligands 
for a given TAAR can vary in behavioral effect. Second, when combined, some
attractive and aversive odorants neutralize one another's behavioral effects.
Both a TAAR ligand and a common odorant block aversion to a predator odor,
indicating that this ability is not unique to TAARs and can extend to an aversive
response of potential importance to survival. In vitro testing of single
receptors with binary odorant mixtures indicates that behavioral blocking can
occur without receptor antagonism in the nose. Moreover, genetic ablation of a
single receptor prevents its cognate ligand from blocking predator odor aversion,
indicating that the blocking requires sensory input from the receptor. Together, 
these findings indicate that innate odor-induced behaviors can depend on context,
that signals from a single receptor can block innate odor aversion, and that
instinctive behavioral responses to odors can be modulated by interactions in the
brain among signals derived from different receptors.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1605973113 
PMCID: PMC4988607
PMID: 27208093  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


94. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 7;113(23):E3307-14. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1606106113. Epub 2016 May 20.

Neuronal energy-sensing pathway promotes energy balance by modulating disease
tolerance.

Shen R(1), Wang B(2), Giribaldi MG(3), Ayres J(3), Thomas JB(4), Montminy M(5).

Author information: 
(1)Clayton Foundation Laboratories for Peptide Biology, The Salk Institute for
Biological Studies, La Jolla, CA 92037; Molecular Neurobiology Laboratory, The
Salk Institute for Biological Studies, La Jolla, CA 92037; (2)Clayton Foundation 
Laboratories for Peptide Biology, The Salk Institute for Biological Studies, La
Jolla, CA 92037; (3)Nomis Foundation Laboratories for Immunobiology and Microbial
Pathogenesis, The Salk Institute for Biological Studies, La Jolla, CA 92037.
(4)Molecular Neurobiology Laboratory, The Salk Institute for Biological Studies, 
La Jolla, CA 92037; (5)Clayton Foundation Laboratories for Peptide Biology, The
Salk Institute for Biological Studies, La Jolla, CA 92037; montminy@salk.edu.

The starvation-inducible coactivator cAMP response element binding protein
(CREB)-cAMP-regulated transcription coactivator (Crtc) has been shown to promote 
starvation resistance in Drosophila by up-regulating CREB target gene expression 
in neurons, although the underlying mechanism is unclear. We found that Crtc and 
its binding partner CREB enhance energy homeostasis by stimulating the expression
of short neuropeptide F (sNPF), an ortholog of mammalian neuropeptide Y, which we
show here is a direct target of CREB and Crtc. Neuronal sNPF was found to promote
energy homeostasis via gut enterocyte sNPF receptors, which appear to maintain
gut epithelial integrity. Loss of Crtc-sNPF signaling disrupted epithelial tight 
junctions, allowing resident gut flora to promote chronic increases in
antimicrobial peptide (AMP) gene expression that compromised energy balance.
Growth on germ-free food reduced AMP gene expression and rescued starvation
sensitivity in Crtc mutant flies. Overexpression of Crtc or sNPF in neurons of
wild-type flies dampens the gut immune response and enhances starvation
resistance. Our results reveal a previously unidentified tolerance defense
strategy involving a brain-gut pathway that maintains homeostasis through its
effects on epithelial integrity.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1606106113 
PMCID: PMC4988575
PMID: 27208092  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


95. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 7;113(23):6526-31. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1524292113. Epub 2016 May 19.

MerTK cleavage limits proresolving mediator biosynthesis and exacerbates tissue
inflammation.

Cai B(1), Thorp EB(2), Doran AC(1), Subramanian M(1), Sansbury BE(3), Lin CS(1), 
Spite M(3), Fredman G(4), Tabas I(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Columbia University, New York, NY 10032; Department of
Pathology and Cell Biology, Columbia University, New York, NY 10032; Department
of Physiology, Columbia University, New York, NY 10032; (2)Department of
Pathology, Feinberg Cardiovascular Research Institute, Northwestern University,
Chicago, IL 60611; (3)Center for Experimental Therapeutics and Reperfusion
Injury, Department of Anesthesia, Brigham and Women's Hospital and Harvard
Medical School, Boston, MA 02115; (4)Center for Cardiovascular Sciences,
Department of Molecular and Cellular Physiology, Albany Medical College, Albany, 
NY 12208 fredmag@mail.amc.edu iat1@columbia.edu. (5)Department of Medicine,
Columbia University, New York, NY 10032; Department of Pathology and Cell
Biology, Columbia University, New York, NY 10032; Department of Physiology,
Columbia University, New York, NY 10032; fredmag@mail.amc.edu iat1@columbia.edu.

The acute inflammatory response requires a coordinated resolution program to
prevent excessive inflammation, repair collateral damage, and restore tissue
homeostasis, and failure of this response contributes to the pathology of
numerous chronic inflammatory diseases. Resolution is mediated in part by
long-chain fatty acid-derived lipid mediators called specialized proresolving
mediators (SPMs). However, how SPMs are regulated during the inflammatory
response, and how this process goes awry in inflammatory diseases, are poorly
understood. We now show that signaling through the Mer proto-oncogene tyrosine
kinase (MerTK) receptor in cultured macrophages and in sterile inflammation in
vivo promotes SPM biosynthesis by a mechanism involving an increase in the
cytoplasmic:nuclear ratio of a key SPM biosynthetic enzyme, 5-lipoxygenase. This 
action of MerTK is linked to the resolution of sterile peritonitis and, after
ischemia-reperfusion (I/R) injury, to increased circulating SPMs and decreased
remote organ inflammation. MerTK is susceptible to ADAM metallopeptidase domain
17 (ADAM17)-mediated cell-surface cleavage under inflammatory conditions, but the
functional significance is not known. We show here that SPM biosynthesis is
increased and inflammation resolution is improved in a new mouse model in which
endogenous MerTK was replaced with a genetically engineered variant that is
cleavage-resistant (Mertk(CR)). Mertk(CR) mice also have increased circulating
levels of SPMs and less lung injury after I/R. Thus, MerTK cleavage during
inflammation limits SPM biosynthesis and the resolution response. These findings 
contribute to our understanding of how SPM synthesis is regulated during the
inflammatory response and suggest new therapeutic avenues to boost resolution in 
settings where defective resolution promotes disease progression.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1524292113 
PMCID: PMC4988577
PMID: 27199481  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


96. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 7;113(23):6556-61. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1521299113. Epub 2016 May 16.

Transient neuronal coactivations embedded in globally propagating waves underlie 
resting-state functional connectivity.

Matsui T(1), Murakami T(2), Ohki K(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Physiology, Graduate School of Medical Sciences,
Kyushu University, Fukuoka 812-8582, Japan; Department of Physiology, The
University of Tokyo School of Medicine, Tokyo 113-0033, Japan;
tematsui@m.u-tokyo.ac.jp kohki@m.u-tokyo.ac.jp. (2)Department of Molecular
Physiology, Graduate School of Medical Sciences, Kyushu University, Fukuoka
812-8582, Japan; Department of Physiology, The University of Tokyo School of
Medicine, Tokyo 113-0033, Japan; (3)Department of Molecular Physiology, Graduate 
School of Medical Sciences, Kyushu University, Fukuoka 812-8582, Japan;
Department of Physiology, The University of Tokyo School of Medicine, Tokyo
113-0033, Japan; Core Research for Evolutional Science and Technology (CREST),
Japan Science and Technology Agency, Tokyo 102-0083, Japan
tematsui@m.u-tokyo.ac.jp kohki@m.u-tokyo.ac.jp.

Resting-state functional connectivity (FC), which measures the correlation of
spontaneous hemodynamic signals (HemoS) between brain areas, is widely used to
study brain networks noninvasively. It is commonly assumed that spatial patterns 
of HemoS-based FC (Hemo-FC) reflect large-scale dynamics of underlying neuronal
activity. To date, studies of spontaneous neuronal activity cataloged
heterogeneous types of events ranging from waves of activity spanning the entire 
neocortex to flash-like activations of a set of anatomically connected cortical
areas. However, it remains unclear how these various types of large-scale
dynamics are interrelated. More importantly, whether each type of large-scale
dynamics contributes to Hemo-FC has not been explored. Here, we addressed these
questions by simultaneously monitoring neuronal calcium signals (CaS) and HemoS
in the entire neocortex of mice at high spatiotemporal resolution. We found a
significant relationship between two seemingly different types of large-scale
spontaneous neuronal activity-namely, global waves propagating across the
neocortex and transient coactivations among cortical areas sharing high FC.
Different sets of cortical areas, sharing high FC within each set, were
coactivated at different timings of the propagating global waves, suggesting that
spatial information of cortical network characterized by FC was embedded in the
phase of the global waves. Furthermore, we confirmed that such transient
coactivations in CaS were indeed converted into spatially similar coactivations
in HemoS and were necessary to sustain the spatial structure of Hemo-FC. These
results explain how global waves of spontaneous neuronal activity propagating
across large-scale cortical network contribute to Hemo-FC in the resting state.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1521299113 
PMCID: PMC4988587
PMID: 27185944  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


97. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 7;113(23):E3270-9. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1524294113. Epub 2016 May 16.

Severe adult malaria is associated with specific PfEMP1 adhesion types and high
parasite biomass.

Bernabeu M(1), Danziger SA(1), Avril M(1), Vaz M(2), Babar PH(3), Brazier AJ(1), 
Herricks T(3), Maki JN(3), Pereira L(3), Mascarenhas A(3), Gomes E(2), Chery
L(3), Aitchison JD(1), Rathod PK(3), Smith JD(4).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Infectious Disease Research, Seattle, WA 98109; (2)Department of
Medicine, Goa Medical College & Hospital, Bambolim, Goa 403202, India;
(3)Department of Chemistry, University of Washington, Seattle, WA 98195;
Department of Global Health, University of Washington, Seattle, WA 98195.
(4)Center for Infectious Disease Research, Seattle, WA 98109;
joe.smith@cidresearch.org.

The interplay between cellular and molecular determinants that lead to severe
malaria in adults is unexplored. Here, we analyzed parasite virulence factors in 
an infected adult population in India and investigated whether severe malaria
isolates impair endothelial protein C receptor (EPCR), a protein involved in
coagulation and endothelial barrier permeability. Severe malaria isolates
overexpressed specific members of the Plasmodium falciparum var gene/PfEMP1 (P.
falciparum erythrocyte membrane protein 1) family that bind EPCR, including DC8
var genes that have previously been linked to severe pediatric malaria. Machine
learning analysis revealed that DC6- and DC8-encoding var transcripts in
combination with high parasite biomass were the strongest indicators of patient
hospitalization and disease severity. We found that DC8 CIDRα1 domains from
severe malaria isolates had substantial differences in EPCR binding affinity and 
blockade activity for its ligand activated protein C. Additionally, even a low
level of inhibition exhibited by domains from two cerebral malaria isolates was
sufficient to interfere with activated protein C-barrier protective activities in
human brain endothelial cells. Our findings demonstrate an interplay between
parasite biomass and specific PfEMP1 adhesion types in the development of adult
severe malaria, and indicate that low impairment of EPCR function may contribute 
to parasite virulence.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1524294113 
PMCID: PMC4988613
PMID: 27185931  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


98. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 21;113(25):6922-7. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1521056113. Epub 2016 May 16.

Range expansions transition from pulled to pushed waves as growth becomes more
cooperative in an experimental microbial population.

Gandhi SR(1), Yurtsev EA(1), Korolev KS(2), Gore J(3).

Author information: 
(1)Physics of Living Systems Group, Department of Physics, Massachusetts
Institute of Technology, Cambridge, MA 02139; (2)Department of Physics, Boston
University, Boston, MA 02215; Graduate Program in Bioinformatics, Boston
University, Boston, MA 02215 korolev@bu.edu gore@mit.edu. (3)Physics of Living
Systems Group, Department of Physics, Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
Cambridge, MA 02139; korolev@bu.edu gore@mit.edu.

Comment on
    Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 21;113(25):6819-20.

Range expansions are becoming more frequent due to environmental changes and rare
long-distance dispersal, often facilitated by anthropogenic activities. Simple
models in theoretical ecology explain many emergent properties of range
expansions, such as a constant expansion velocity, in terms of organism-level
properties such as growth and dispersal rates. Testing these quantitative
predictions in natural populations is difficult because of large environmental
variability. Here, we used a controlled microbial model system to study range
expansions of populations with and without intraspecific cooperativity. For
noncooperative growth, the expansion dynamics were dominated by population growth
at the low-density front, which pulled the expansion forward. We found these
expansions to be in close quantitative agreement with the classical theory of
pulled waves by Fisher [Fisher RA (1937) Ann Eugen 7(4):355-369] and Skellam
[Skellam JG (1951) Biometrika 38(1-2):196-218], suitably adapted to our
experimental system. However, as cooperativity increased, the expansions
transitioned to being pushed, that is, controlled by growth and dispersal in the 
bulk as well as in the front. Given the prevalence of cooperative growth in
nature, understanding the effects of cooperativity is essential to managing
invading species and understanding their evolution.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1521056113 
PMCID: PMC4922184
PMID: 27185918  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


99. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 21;113(25):E3482-91. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1605917113. Epub 2016 May 16.

Phosphorylation of spore coat proteins by a family of atypical protein kinases.

Nguyen KB(1), Sreelatha A(2), Durrant ES(1), Lopez-Garrido J(3), Muszewska A(4), 
Dudkiewicz M(5), Grynberg M(6), Yee S(2), Pogliano K(3), Tomchick DR(7),
Pawłowski K(5), Dixon JE(8), Tagliabracci VS(9).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, CA 
92093; (2)Department of Molecular Biology, University of Texas Southwestern
Medical Center, Dallas, TX 75390; (3)Division of Biological Sciences, University 
of California, San Diego, La Jolla, CA 92093; (4)Department of Microbial
Biochemistry, Institute of Biochemistry and Biophysics, Polish Academy of
Sciences, 02106 Warsaw, Poland; (5)Department of Experimental Design and
Bioinformatics, Warsaw University of Life Sciences, 02787 Warsaw, Poland;
(6)Department of Biophysics, Institute of Biochemistry and Biophysics, Polish
Academy of Sciences, 02106 Warsaw, Poland; (7)Departments of Biophysics and
Biochemistry, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas, TX 75390; 
(8)Department of Pharmacology, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, CA 
92093; Department of Cellular and Molecular Medicine, University of California,
San Diego, La Jolla, CA 92093; Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry,
University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, CA 92093 jedixon@ucsd.edu
vincent.tagliabracci@utsouthwestern.edu. (9)Department of Molecular Biology,
University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas, TX 75390;
jedixon@ucsd.edu vincent.tagliabracci@utsouthwestern.edu.

Comment on
    Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 21;113(25):6811-2.

The modification of proteins by phosphorylation occurs in all life forms and is
catalyzed by a large superfamily of enzymes known as protein kinases. We recently
discovered a family of secretory pathway kinases that phosphorylate extracellular
proteins. One member, family with sequence similarity 20C (Fam20C), is the
physiological Golgi casein kinase. While examining distantly related protein
sequences, we observed low levels of identity between the spore coat protein H
(CotH), and the Fam20C-related secretory pathway kinases. CotH is a component of 
the spore in many bacterial and eukaryotic species, and is required for efficient
germination of spores in Bacillus subtilis; however, the mechanism by which CotH 
affects germination is unclear. Here, we show that CotH is a protein kinase. The 
crystal structure of CotH reveals an atypical protein kinase-like fold with a
unique mode of ATP binding. Examination of the genes neighboring cotH in B.
subtilis led us to identify two spore coat proteins, CotB and CotG, as CotH
substrates. Furthermore, we show that CotH-dependent phosphorylation of CotB and 
CotG is required for the efficient germination of B. subtilis spores.
Collectively, our results define a family of atypical protein kinases and reveal 
an unexpected role for protein phosphorylation in spore biology.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1605917113 
PMCID: PMC4922149
PMID: 27185916  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


100. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 21;113(25):E3519-28. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1525606113. Epub 2016 May 16.

LAP-like process as an immune mechanism downstream of IFN-γ in control of the
human malaria Plasmodium vivax liver stage.

Boonhok R(1), Rachaphaew N(2), Duangmanee A(2), Chobson P(2), Pattaradilokrat
S(3), Utaisincharoen P(4), Sattabongkot J(5), Ponpuak M(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, Faculty of Science, Mahidol University, Bangkok
10400, Thailand; Mahidol Vivax Research Unit, Faculty of Tropical Medicine,
Mahidol University, Bangkok 10400, Thailand; (2)Mahidol Vivax Research Unit,
Faculty of Tropical Medicine, Mahidol University, Bangkok 10400, Thailand;
(3)Department of Biology, Faculty of Science, Chulalongkorn University, Bangkok
10330, Thailand. (4)Department of Microbiology, Faculty of Science, Mahidol
University, Bangkok 10400, Thailand; (5)Mahidol Vivax Research Unit, Faculty of
Tropical Medicine, Mahidol University, Bangkok 10400, Thailand;
jetsumon.pra@mahidol.ac.th marisa.pon@mahidol.ac.th. (6)Department of
Microbiology, Faculty of Science, Mahidol University, Bangkok 10400, Thailand;
jetsumon.pra@mahidol.ac.th marisa.pon@mahidol.ac.th.

Comment on
    Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 21;113(25):6813-5.

IFN-γ is a major regulator of immune functions and has been shown to induce
liver-stage Plasmodium elimination both in vitro and in vivo. The molecular
mechanism responsible for the restriction of liver-stage Plasmodium downstream of
IFN-γ remains uncertain, however. Autophagy, a newly described immune defense
mechanism, was recently identified as a downstream pathway activated in response 
to IFN-γ in the control of intracellular infections. We thus hypothesized that
the killing of liver-stage malarial parasites by IFN-γ involves autophagy
induction. Our results show that whereas IFN-γ treatment of human hepatocytes
activates autophagy, the IFN-γ-mediated restriction of liver-stage Plasmodium
vivax depends only on the downstream autophagy-related proteins Beclin 1, PI3K,
and ATG5, but not on the upstream autophagy-initiating protein ULK1. In addition,
IFN-γ enhanced the recruitment of LC3 onto the parasitophorous vacuole membrane
(PVM) and increased the colocalization of lysosomal vesicles with P. vivax
compartments. Taken together, these data indicate that IFN-γ mediates the control
of liver-stage P. vivax by inducing a noncanonical autophagy pathway resembling
that of LC3-associated phagocytosis, in which direct decoration of the PVM with
LC3 promotes the fusion of P. vivax compartments with lysosomes and subsequent
killing of the pathogen. Understanding the hepatocyte response to IFN-γ during
Plasmodium infection and the roles of autophagy-related proteins may provide an
urgently needed alternative strategy for the elimination of this human malaria.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1525606113 
PMCID: PMC4922146
PMID: 27185909  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


101. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 21;113(25):6961-6. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1600304113. Epub 2016 May 16.

Mammalian African trypanosome VSG coat enhances tsetse's vector competence.

Aksoy E(1), Vigneron A(1), Bing X(1), Zhao X(1), O'Neill M(1), Wu YN(1), Bangs
JD(2), Weiss BL(3), Aksoy S(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Epidemiology of Microbial Diseases, Yale School of Public
Health, Yale University, New Haven, CT 06520; (2)Department of Microbiology and
Immunology, University at Buffalo (SUNY), Buffalo, NY 14214. (3)Department of
Epidemiology of Microbial Diseases, Yale School of Public Health, Yale
University, New Haven, CT 06520; brian.weiss@yale.edu serap.aksoy@yale.edu.

Comment in
    Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 21;113(25):6821-3.

Comment on
    Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 21;113(25):6821-3.

Tsetse flies are biological vectors of African trypanosomes, the protozoan
parasites responsible for causing human and animal trypanosomiases across
sub-Saharan Africa. Currently, no vaccines are available for disease prevention
due to antigenic variation of the Variant Surface Glycoproteins (VSG) that coat
parasites while they reside within mammalian hosts. As a result, interference
with parasite development in the tsetse vector is being explored to reduce
disease transmission. A major bottleneck to infection occurs as parasites attempt
to colonize tsetse's midgut. One critical factor influencing this bottleneck is
the fly's peritrophic matrix (PM), a semipermeable, chitinous barrier that lines 
the midgut. The mechanisms that enable trypanosomes to cross this barrier are
currently unknown. Here, we determined that as parasites enter the tsetse's gut, 
VSG molecules released from trypanosomes are internalized by cells of the
cardia-the tissue responsible for producing the PM. VSG internalization results
in decreased expression of a tsetse microRNA (mir-275) and interferes with the
Wnt-signaling pathway and the Iroquois/IRX transcription factor family. This
interference reduces the function of the PM barrier and promotes parasite
colonization of the gut early in the infection process. Manipulation of the
insect midgut homeostasis by the mammalian parasite coat proteins is a novel
function and indicates that VSG serves a dual role in trypanosome biology-that of
facilitating transmission through its mammalian host and insect vector. We detail
critical steps in the course of trypanosome infection establishment that can
serve as novel targets to reduce the tsetse's vector competence and disease
transmission.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1600304113 
PMCID: PMC4922192
PMID: 27185908  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


102. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 7;113(23):6427-32. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1602251113. Epub 2016 May 9.

Hydrology and density feedbacks control the ecology of intermediate hosts of
schistosomiasis across habitats in seasonal climates.

Perez-Saez J(1), Mande T(1), Ceperley N(2), Bertuzzo E(1), Mari L(3), Gatto M(3),
Rinaldo A(4).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Ecohydrology, School of Architecture, Civil and Environmental
Engineering, École Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne, CH-1015 Lausanne,
Switzerland; (2)Laboratory of Ecohydrology, School of Architecture, Civil and
Environmental Engineering, École Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne, CH-1015
Lausanne, Switzerland; Hydrology Group, Institute of Earth Surface Dynamics,
Faculty of Geosciences and Environment, University of Lausanne, CH-1015 Lausanne,
Switzerland; (3)Dipartimento di Elettronica, Informazione e Bioingegneria,
Politecnico di Milano, 20133 Milan, Italy; (4)Laboratory of Ecohydrology, School 
of Architecture, Civil and Environmental Engineering, École Polytechnique
Fédérale de Lausanne, CH-1015 Lausanne, Switzerland; Dipartimento di Ingegneria
Civile Edile ed Ambientale, Università di Padova, I-35131 Padua, Italy
andrea.rinaldo@epfl.ch.

We report about field and theoretical studies on the ecology of the aquatic
snails (Bulinus spp. and Biomphalaria pfeifferi) that serve as obligate
intermediate hosts in the complex life cycle of the parasites causing human
schistosomiasis. Snail abundance fosters disease transmission, and thus the
dynamics of snail populations are critically important for schistosomiasis
modeling and control. Here, we single out hydrological drivers and density
dependence (or lack of it) of ecological growth rates of local snail populations 
by contrasting novel ecological and environmental data with various models of
host demography. Specifically, we study various natural and man-made habitats
across Burkina Faso's highly seasonal climatic zones. Demographic models are
ranked through formal model comparison and structural risk minimization. The
latter allows us to evaluate the suitability of population models while
clarifying the relevant covariates that explain empirical observations of snail
abundance under the actual climatic forcings experienced by the various field
sites. Our results link quantitatively hydrological drivers to distinct
population dynamics through specific density feedbacks, and show that statistical
methods based on model averaging provide reliable snail abundance projections.
The consistency of our ranking results suggests the use of ad hoc models of snail
demography depending on habitat type (e.g., natural vs. man-made) and
hydrological characteristics (e.g., ephemeral vs. permanent). Implications for
risk mapping and space-time allocation of control measures in
schistosomiasis-endemic contexts are discussed.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1602251113 
PMCID: PMC4988578
PMID: 27162339  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


103. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 7;113(23):6502-7. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1600035113. Epub 2016 May 2.

Decades of field data reveal that turtles senesce in the wild.

Warner DA(1), Miller DA(2), Bronikowski AM(1), Janzen FJ(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ecology, Evolution & Organismal Biology, Iowa State University, 
Ames, IA 50011; (2)Department of Ecosystem Science and Management, Pennsylvania
State University, University Park, PA 16802. (3)Department of Ecology, Evolution 
& Organismal Biology, Iowa State University, Ames, IA 50011; fjanzen@iastate.edu.

Comment in
    Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jun 7;113(23):6328-9.

Lifespan and aging rates vary considerably across taxa; thus, understanding the
factors that lead to this variation is a primary goal in biology and has
ramifications for understanding constraints and flexibility in human aging.
Theory predicts that senescence-declining reproduction and increasing mortality
with advancing age-evolves when selection against harmful mutations is weaker at 
old ages relative to young ages or when selection favors pleiotropic alleles with
beneficial effects early in life despite late-life costs. However, in many
long-lived ectotherms, selection is expected to remain strong at old ages because
reproductive output typically increases with age, which may lead to the evolution
of slow or even negligible senescence. We show that, contrary to current
thinking, both reproduction and survival decline with adult age in the painted
turtle, Chrysemys picta, based on data spanning >20 y from a wild population.
Older females, despite relatively high reproductive output, produced eggs with
reduced hatching success. Additionally, age-specific mark-recapture analyses
revealed increasing mortality with advancing adult age. These findings of
reproductive and mortality senescence challenge the contention that chelonians do
not age and more generally provide evidence of reduced fitness at old ages in
nonmammalian species that exhibit long chronological lifespans.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1600035113 
PMCID: PMC4988574
PMID: 27140634  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


104. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Apr 12;113(15):E2162-71. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1603534113. Epub 2016 Mar 28.

Myofibroblasts are distinguished from activated skin fibroblasts by the
expression of AOC3 and other associated markers.

Hsia LT(1), Ashley N(1), Ouaret D(1), Wang LM(2), Wilding J(1), Bodmer WF(3).

Author information: 
(1)Cancer and Immunogenetics Laboratory, Weatherall Institute of Molecular
Medicine, John Radcliffe Hospital, University of Oxford, Oxford, United Kingdom; 
(2)Department of Cellular Pathology, University of Oxford, Oxford, United
Kingdom; Oxford Biomedical Research Centre, University of Oxford, Oxford, United 
Kingdom. (3)Cancer and Immunogenetics Laboratory, Weatherall Institute of
Molecular Medicine, John Radcliffe Hospital, University of Oxford, Oxford, United
Kingdom; walter.bodmer@hertford.ox.ac.uk.

Pericryptal myofibroblasts in the colon and rectum play an important role in
regulating the normal colorectal stem cell niche and facilitating tumor
progression. Myofibroblasts previously have been distinguished from normal
fibroblasts mostly by the expression of α smooth muscle actin (αSMA). We now have
identified AOC3 (amine oxidase, copper containing 3), a surface monoamine
oxidase, as a new marker of myofibroblasts by showing that it is the target
protein of the myofibroblast-reacting mAb PR2D3. The normal and tumor tissue
distribution and the cell line reactivity of AOC3 match that expected for
myofibroblasts. We have shown that the surface expression of AOC3 is sensitive to
digestion by trypsin and collagenase and that anti-AOC3 antibodies can be used
for FACS sorting of myofibroblasts obtained by nonenzymatic procedures.
Whole-genome microarray mRNA-expression profiles of myofibroblasts and skin
fibroblasts revealed four additional genes that are significantly differentially 
expressed in these two cell types: NKX2-3 and LRRC17 in myofibroblasts and SHOX2 
and TBX5 in skin fibroblasts. TGFβ substantially down-regulated AOC3 expression
in myofibroblasts but in skin fibroblasts it dramatically increased the
expression of αSMA. A knockdown of NKX2-3 in myofibroblasts caused a decrease of 
myofibroblast-related gene expression and increased expression of the
fibroblast-associated gene SHOX2, suggesting that NKX2-3 is a key mediator for
maintaining myofibroblast characteristics. Our results show that colorectal
myofibroblasts, as defined by the expression of AOC3, NKX2-3, and other markers, 
are a distinctly different cell type from TGFβ-activated fibroblasts.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1603534113 
PMCID: PMC4839407
PMID: 27036009  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


105. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Apr 12;113(15):E2104-13. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1603455113. Epub 2016 Mar 29.

Reporter nanoparticle that monitors its anticancer efficacy in real time.

Kulkarni A(1), Rao P(2), Natarajan S(2), Goldman A(2), Sabbisetti VS(3), Khater
Y(2), Korimerla N(2), Chandrasekar V(2), Mashelkar RA(4), Sengupta S(5).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Nanomedicine, Harvard-Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Division of Health Sciences and Technology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA
02115; Division of Biomedical Engineering, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA
02115; ashishk@mit.edu ram@ncl.res.in shiladit@mit.edu. (2)Laboratory of
Nanomedicine, Harvard-Massachusetts Institute of Technology Division of Health
Sciences and Technology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02115; Division of
Biomedical Engineering, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02115; (3)Division of 
Renal (Kidney) Medicine, Department of Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital,
Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02115; (4)National Chemical Laboratory, Pune
411008, India; ashishk@mit.edu ram@ncl.res.in shiladit@mit.edu. (5)Laboratory of 
Nanomedicine, Harvard-Massachusetts Institute of Technology Division of Health
Sciences and Technology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02115; Division of
Biomedical Engineering, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02115; Dana Farber
Cancer Institute, Boston, MA 02115 ashishk@mit.edu ram@ncl.res.in
shiladit@mit.edu.

The ability to monitor the efficacy of an anticancer treatment in real time can
have a critical effect on the outcome. Currently, clinical readouts of efficacy
rely on indirect or anatomic measurements, which occur over prolonged time scales
postchemotherapy or postimmunotherapy and may not be concordant with the actual
effect. Here we describe the biology-inspired engineering of a simple 2-in-1
reporter nanoparticle that not only delivers a cytotoxic or an immunotherapy
payload to the tumor but also reports back on the efficacy in real time. The
reporter nanoparticles are engineered from a novel two-staged stimuli-responsive 
polymeric material with an optimal ratio of an enzyme-cleavable drug or
immunotherapy (effector elements) and a drug function-activatable reporter
element. The spatiotemporally constrained delivery of the effector and the
reporter elements in a single nanoparticle produces maximum signal enhancement
due to the availability of the reporter element in the same cell as the drug,
thereby effectively capturing the temporal apoptosis process. Using
chemotherapy-sensitive and chemotherapy-resistant tumors in vivo, we show that
the reporter nanoparticles can provide a real-time noninvasive readout of tumor
response to chemotherapy. The reporter nanoparticle can also monitor the efficacy
of immune checkpoint inhibition in melanoma. The self-reporting capability, for
the first time to our knowledge, captures an anticancer nanoparticle in action in
vivo.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1603455113 
PMCID: PMC4839457
PMID: 27036008  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


106. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Apr 12;113(15):E2152-61. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1603399113. Epub 2016 Mar 28.

Anabolic actions of Notch on mature bone.

Liu P(1), Ping Y(2), Ma M(3), Zhang D(2), Liu C(3), Zaidi S(4), Gao S(5), Ji
Y(6), Lou F(2), Yu F(2), Lu P(7), Stachnik A(7), Bai M(2), Wei C(3), Zhang L(2), 
Wang K(2), Chen R(3), New MI(8), Rowe DW(9), Yuen T(7), Sun L(7), Zaidi M(10).

Author information: 
(1)The Mount Sinai Bone Program, Department of Medicine, Mount Sinai School of
Medicine, NY 10029; State Key Laboratory of Oral Disease, West China School of
Stomatology, Sichuan University, Sichuan 610041, China; mone.zaidi@mssm.edu
liupossible@gmail.com maria.new@mssm.edu. (2)State Key Laboratory of Oral
Disease, West China School of Stomatology, Sichuan University, Sichuan 610041,
China; (3)Department of Genetics and Genomic Sciences, Mount Sinai School of
Medicine, NY 10029; (4)Department of Genetics, Yale School of Medicine, New
Haven, CT 06520; (5)School of Stomatology, Wuhan University, Wuhan 430079, China;
(6)The Mount Sinai Bone Program, Department of Medicine, Mount Sinai School of
Medicine, NY 10029; School of Stomatology, Wuhan University, Wuhan 430079, China;
(7)The Mount Sinai Bone Program, Department of Medicine, Mount Sinai School of
Medicine, NY 10029; (8)Department of Pediatrics, Mount Sinai School of Medicine, 
NY 10029; mone.zaidi@mssm.edu liupossible@gmail.com maria.new@mssm.edu.
(9)Department of Reconstructive Sciences, School of Dental Medicine, University
of Connecticut School of Medicine, Farmington, CT 06030. (10)The Mount Sinai Bone
Program, Department of Medicine, Mount Sinai School of Medicine, NY 10029;
Department of Genetics and Genomic Sciences, Mount Sinai School of Medicine, NY
10029; mone.zaidi@mssm.edu liupossible@gmail.com maria.new@mssm.edu.

Notch controls skeletogenesis, but its role in the remodeling of adult bone
remains conflicting. In mature mice, the skeleton can become osteopenic or
osteosclerotic depending on the time point at which Notch is activated or
inactivated. Using adult EGFP reporter mice, we find that Notch expression is
localized to osteocytes embedded within bone matrix. Conditional activation of
Notch signaling in osteocytes triggers profound bone formation, mainly due to
increased mineralization, which rescues both age-associated and
ovariectomy-induced bone loss and promotes bone healing following osteotomy. In
parallel, mice rendered haploinsufficient in γ-secretase presenilin-1 (Psen1),
which inhibits downstream Notch activation, display almost-absent terminal
osteoblast differentiation. Consistent with this finding, pharmacologic or
genetic disruption of Notch or its ligand Jagged1 inhibits mineralization. We
suggest that stimulation of Notch signaling in osteocytes initiates a profound,
therapeutically relevant, anabolic response.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1603399113 
PMCID: PMC4839423
PMID: 27036007  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


107. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Apr 12;113(15):E2124-33. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1603388113. Epub 2016 Mar 28.

Genome-wide kinetics of DNA excision repair in relation to chromatin state and
mutagenesis.

Adar S(1), Hu J(1), Lieb JD(2), Sancar A(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics, School of Medicine, University of
North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC 27599; (2)Department of Human Genetics,
University of Chicago, Chicago, IL 60637 aziz_sancar@med.unc.edu
jdl.genomics@gmail.com. (3)Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics, School of
Medicine, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC 27599;
aziz_sancar@med.unc.edu jdl.genomics@gmail.com.

We recently developed a high-resolution genome-wide assay for mapping DNA
excision repair named eXcision Repair-sequencing (XR-seq) and have now used
XR-seq to determine which regions of the genome are subject to repair very soon
after UV exposure and which regions are repaired later. Over a time course, we
measured repair of the UV-induced damage of cyclobutane pyrimidine dimers (CPDs) 
(at 1, 4, 8, 16, 24, and 48 h) and (6-4)pyrimidine-pyrimidone photoproducts
[(6-4)PPs] (at 5 and 20 min and 1, 2, and 4 h) in normal human skin fibroblasts. 
Each type of damage has distinct repair kinetics. The (6-4)PPs are detected as
early as 5 min after UV treatment, with the bulk of repair completed by 4 h.
Repair of CPDs, which we previously showed is intimately coupled to
transcription, is slower and in certain regions persists even 2 d after UV
irradiation. We compared our results to the Encyclopedia of DNA Elements data
regarding histone modifications, chromatin state, and transcription. For both
damage types, and for both transcription-coupled and general excision repair, the
earliest repair occurred preferentially in active and open chromatin states.
Conversely, repair in regions classified as "heterochromatic" and "repressed" was
relatively low at early time points, with repair persisting into the late time
points. Damage that remains during DNA replication increases the risk for
mutagenesis. Indeed, late-repaired regions are associated with a higher level of 
cancer-linked mutations. In summary, we show that XR-seq is a powerful approach
for studying relationships among chromatin state, DNA repair, genome stability,
mutagenesis, and carcinogenesis.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1603388113 
PMCID: PMC4839430
PMID: 27036006  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


108. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Apr 12;113(15):E2172-9. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1600812113. Epub 2016 Mar 28.

Output-driven feedback system control platform optimizes combinatorial therapy of
tuberculosis using a macrophage cell culture model.

Silva A(1), Lee BY(2), Clemens DL(2), Kee T(3), Ding X(4), Ho CM(5), Horwitz
MA(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, University of California, 
Los Angeles, CA 90095; (2)Division of Infectious Diseases, Department of
Medicine, University of California, Los Angeles, CA 90095; (3)Department of
Bioengineering, University of California, Los Angeles, CA 90095; (4)Med-X
Research Institute, School of Biomedical Engineering, Shanghai Jiao Tong
University, Shanghai 200030, China. (5)Department of Mechanical and Aerospace
Engineering, University of California, Los Angeles, CA 90095; Department of
Bioengineering, University of California, Los Angeles, CA 90095;
chihming@g.ucla.edu MHorwitz@mednet.ucla.edu. (6)Division of Infectious Diseases,
Department of Medicine, University of California, Los Angeles, CA 90095;
chihming@g.ucla.edu MHorwitz@mednet.ucla.edu.

Tuberculosis (TB) remains a major global public health problem, and improved
treatments are needed to shorten duration of therapy, decrease disease burden,
improve compliance, and combat emergence of drug resistance. Ideally, the most
effective regimen would be identified by a systematic and comprehensive
combinatorial search of large numbers of TB drugs. However, optimization of
regimens by standard methods is challenging, especially as the number of drugs
increases, because of the extremely large number of drug-dose combinations
requiring testing. Herein, we used an optimization platform, feedback system
control (FSC) methodology, to identify improved drug-dose combinations for TB
treatment using a fluorescence-based human macrophage cell culture model of TB,
in which macrophages are infected with isopropyl β-D-1-thiogalactopyranoside
(IPTG)-inducible green fluorescent protein (GFP)-expressing Mycobacterium
tuberculosis (Mtb). On the basis of only a single screening test and three
iterations, we identified highly efficacious three- and four-drug combinations.
To verify the efficacy of these combinations, we further evaluated them using a
methodologically independent assay for intramacrophage killing of Mtb; the
optimized combinations showed greater efficacy than the current standard TB drug 
regimen. Surprisingly, all top three- and four-drug optimized regimens included
the third-line drug clofazimine, and none included the first-line drugs isoniazid
and rifampin, which had insignificant or antagonistic impacts on efficacy.
Because top regimens also did not include a fluoroquinolone or aminoglycoside,
they are potentially of use for treating many cases of multidrug- and extensively
drug-resistant TB. Our study shows the power of an FSC platform to identify
promising previously unidentified drug-dose combinations for treatment of TB.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1600812113 
PMCID: PMC4839402
PMID: 27035987  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


109. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Apr 12;113(15):E2199-206. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1600558113. Epub 2016 Mar 28.

DELAY OF GERMINATION1 (DOG1) regulates both seed dormancy and flowering time
through microRNA pathways.

Huo H(1), Wei S(2), Bradford KJ(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Plant Sciences, Seed Biotechnology Center, University of
California, Davis, CA 95616; (2)Institute of Plant Protection, Chinese Academy of
Agricultural Sciences, Beijing 100193, China. (3)Department of Plant Sciences,
Seed Biotechnology Center, University of California, Davis, CA 95616;
kjbradford@ucdavis.edu.

Seed germination and flowering, two critical developmental transitions in plant
life cycles, are coordinately regulated by genetic and environmental factors to
match plant establishment and reproduction to seasonal cues. The DELAY OF
GERMINATION1 (DOG1) gene is involved in regulating seed dormancy in response to
temperature and has also been associated genetically with pleiotropic flowering
phenotypes across diverse Arabidopsis thaliana accessions and locations. Here we 
show that DOG1 can regulate seed dormancy and flowering times in lettuce (Lactuca
sativa, Ls) and Arabidopsis through an influence on levels of microRNAs (miRNAs) 
miR156 and miR172. In lettuce, suppression of LsDOG1 expression enabled seed
germination at high temperature and promoted early flowering in association with 
reduced miR156 and increased miR172 levels. In Arabidopsis, higher miR156 levels 
resulting from overexpression of the MIR156 gene enhanced seed dormancy and
delayed flowering. These phenotypic effects, as well as conversion of MIR156
transcripts to miR156, were compromised in DOG1 loss-of-function mutant plants,
especially in seeds. Overexpression of MIR172 reduced seed dormancy and promoted 
early flowering in Arabidopsis, and the effect on flowering required functional
DOG1 Transcript levels of several genes associated with miRNA processing were
consistently lower in dry seeds of Arabidopsis and lettuce when DOG1 was mutated 
or its expression was reduced; in contrast, transcript levels of these genes were
elevated in a DOG1 gain-of-function mutant. Our results reveal a previously
unknown linkage between two critical developmental phase transitions in the plant
life cycle through a DOG1-miR156-miR172 interaction.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1600558113 
PMCID: PMC4839450
PMID: 27035986  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


110. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Apr 12;113(15):E2114-23. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1525164113. Epub 2016 Mar 29.

Radical remodeling of the Y chromosome in a recent radiation of malaria
mosquitoes.

Hall AB(1), Papathanos PA(2), Sharma A(3), Cheng C(4), Akbari OS(5), Assour L(6),
Bergman NH(7), Cagnetti A(8), Crisanti A(2), Dottorini T(9), Fiorentini E(9),
Galizi R(9), Hnath J(7), Jiang X(1), Koren S(10), Nolan T(9), Radune D(7),
Sharakhova MV(11), Steele A(6), Timoshevskiy VA(3), Windbichler N(9), Zhang
S(12), Hahn MW(13), Phillippy AM(10), Emrich SJ(14), Sharakhov IV(15), Tu ZJ(16),
Besansky NJ(17).

Author information: 
(1)The Interdisciplinary PhD Program in Genetics, Bioinformatics, and
Computational Biology, Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University,
Blacksburg, VA 24061; (2)Section of Genomics and Genetics, Department of
Experimental Medicine, University of Perugia, 06132 Perugia, Italy; Department of
Life Sciences, Imperial College London, London SW7 2AZ, United Kingdom;
(3)Department of Entomology, Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University,
Blacksburg, VA 24061; (4)Eck Institute for Global Health, University of Notre
Dame, Notre Dame, IN 46556; Department of Biological Sciences, University of
Notre Dame, Notre Dame, IN 46556; (5)Department of Entomology, Riverside Center
for Disease Vector Research, Institute for Integrative Genome Biology, University
of California, Riverside, CA 92521; (6)Department of Computer Science and
Engineering, University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, IN 46556; (7)National
Biodefense Analysis and Countermeasures Center, Frederick, MD 21702; (8)Section
of Genomics and Genetics, Department of Experimental Medicine, University of
Perugia, 06132 Perugia, Italy; (9)Department of Life Sciences, Imperial College
London, London SW7 2AZ, United Kingdom; (10)Genome Informatics Section,
Computational and Statistical Genomics Branch, National Human Genome Research
Institute, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892; (11)Department of
Entomology, Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University, Blacksburg, VA
24061; Laboratory of Evolutionary Cytogenetics, Tomsk State University, Tomsk
634050, Russia; (12)School of Informatics and Computing, Indiana University,
Bloomington, IN 47405; (13)School of Informatics and Computing, Indiana
University, Bloomington, IN 47405; Department of Biology, Indiana University,
Bloomington, IN 47405; (14)Eck Institute for Global Health, University of Notre
Dame, Notre Dame, IN 46556; Department of Computer Science and Engineering,
University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, IN 46556; (15)The Interdisciplinary PhD
Program in Genetics, Bioinformatics, and Computational Biology, Virginia
Polytechnic Institute and State University, Blacksburg, VA 24061; Department of
Entomology, Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University, Blacksburg, VA
24061; Laboratory of Evolutionary Cytogenetics, Tomsk State University, Tomsk
634050, Russia; igor@vt.edu jaketu@vt.edu nbesansk@nd.edu. (16)The
Interdisciplinary PhD Program in Genetics, Bioinformatics, and Computational
Biology, Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University, Blacksburg, VA
24061; Department of Biochemistry, Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State
University, Blacksburg, VA 24061 igor@vt.edu jaketu@vt.edu nbesansk@nd.edu.
(17)Eck Institute for Global Health, University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, IN
46556; Department of Biological Sciences, University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame,
IN 46556; igor@vt.edu jaketu@vt.edu nbesansk@nd.edu.

Y chromosomes control essential male functions in many species, including sex
determination and fertility. However, because of obstacles posed by repeat-rich
heterochromatin, knowledge of Y chromosome sequences is limited to a handful of
model organisms, constraining our understanding of Y biology across the tree of
life. Here, we leverage long single-molecule sequencing to determine the content 
and structure of the nonrecombining Y chromosome of the primary African malaria
mosquito, Anopheles gambiae We find that the An. gambiae Y consists almost
entirely of a few massively amplified, tandemly arrayed repeats, some of which
can recombine with similar repeats on the X chromosome. Sex-specific genome
resequencing in a recent species radiation, the An. gambiae complex, revealed
rapid sequence turnover within An. gambiae and among species. Exploiting 52
sex-specific An. gambiae RNA-Seq datasets representing all developmental stages, 
we identified a small repertoire of Y-linked genes that lack X gametologs and are
not Y-linked in any other species except An. gambiae, with the notable exception 
of YG2, a candidate male-determining gene. YG2 is the only gene conserved and
exclusive to the Y in all species examined, yet sequence similarity to YG2 is not
detectable in the genome of a more distant mosquito relative, suggesting rapid
evolution of Y chromosome genes in this highly dynamic genus of malaria vectors. 
The extensive characterization of the An. gambiae Y provides a long-awaited
foundation for studying male mosquito biology, and will inform novel mosquito
control strategies based on the manipulation of Y chromosomes.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1525164113 
PMCID: PMC4839409
PMID: 27035980  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


111. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Apr 12;113(15):E2142-51. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1513943113. Epub 2016 Mar 28.

Defects in lysosomal maturation facilitate the activation of innate sensors in
systemic lupus erythematosus.

Monteith AJ(1), Kang S(2), Scott E(2), Hillman K(2), Rajfur Z(3), Jacobson K(4), 
Costello MJ(5), Vilen BJ(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology & Immunology, University of North Carolina, Chapel 
Hill, NC 27599; Curriculum in Biochemistry & Biophysics, University of North
Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC 27599; (2)Department of Microbiology & Immunology,
University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC 27599; (3)Department of Cell
Biology & Physiology, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC 27599;
Department of Physics, Astronomy, and Applied Computer Science, Institute of
Physics, Jagiellonian University, 31-007, Krakow, Poland; (4)Department of Cell
Biology & Physiology, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC 27599;
Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of North Carolina, Chapel
Hill, NC 27599. (5)Department of Cell Biology & Physiology, University of North
Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC 27599; (6)Department of Microbiology & Immunology,
University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC 27599; Lineberger Comprehensive
Cancer Center, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC 27599
barb_vilen@med.unc.edu.

Defects in clearing apoptotic debris disrupt tissue and immunological
homeostasis, leading to autoimmune and inflammatory diseases. Herein, we report
that macrophages from lupus-prone MRL/lpr mice have impaired lysosomal
maturation, resulting in heightened ROS production and attenuated lysosomal
acidification. Impaired lysosomal maturation diminishes the ability of lysosomes 
to degrade apoptotic debris contained within IgG-immune complexes (IgG-ICs) and
promotes recycling and the accumulation of nuclear self-antigens at the membrane 
72 h after internalization. Diminished degradation of IgG-ICs prolongs the
intracellular residency of nucleic acids, leading to the activation of Toll-like 
receptors. It also promotes phagosomal membrane permeabilization, allowing dsDNA 
and IgG to leak into the cytosol and activate AIM2 and TRIM21. Collectively,
these events promote the accumulation of nuclear antigens and activate innate
sensors that drive IFNα production and heightened cell death. These data identify
a previously unidentified defect in lysosomal maturation that provides a
mechanism for the chronic activation of intracellular innate sensors in systemic 
lupus erythematosus.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1513943113 
PMCID: PMC4839468
PMID: 27035940  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


112. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Apr 12;113(15):4218-23. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1513093113. Epub 2016 Mar 28.

GOLDEN 2-LIKE transcription factors for chloroplast development affect ozone
tolerance through the regulation of stomatal movement.

Nagatoshi Y(1), Mitsuda N(2), Hayashi M(3), Inoue S(3), Okuma E(4), Kubo A(5),
Murata Y(4), Seo M(6), Saji H(5), Kinoshita T(7), Ohme-Takagi M(8).

Author information: 
(1)Bioproduction Research Institute, National Institute of Advanced Industrial
Science and Technology, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 305-8562, Japan; Biological Resources
and Post-harvest Division, Japan International Research Center for Agricultural
Sciences, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 305-8686, Japan; (2)Bioproduction Research Institute, 
National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology, Tsukuba,
Ibaraki 305-8562, Japan; (3)Division of Biological Science, Graduate School of
Science, Nagoya University, Chikusa, Nagoya 464-8602, Japan; (4)Graduate School
of Environmental and Life Science, Okayama University, Okayama 700-8530, Japan;
(5)Center for Environmental Biology and Ecosystem Studies, National Institute for
Environmental Studies, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 305-8506, Japan; (6)RIKEN Center for
Sustainable Resource Science, Yokohama, Kanagawa 230-0045, Japan; (7)Division of 
Biological Science, Graduate School of Science, Nagoya University, Chikusa,
Nagoya 464-8602, Japan; Institute of Transformative Bio-Molecules, Nagoya
University, Chikusa, Nagoya 464-8602, Japan; (8)Bioproduction Research Institute,
National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology, Tsukuba,
Ibaraki 305-8562, Japan; Graduate School of Science and Engineering, Saitama
University, Saitama 338-8570, Japan mtakagi@mail.saitama-u.ac.jp.

Stomatal movements regulate gas exchange, thus directly affecting the efficiency 
of photosynthesis and the sensitivity of plants to air pollutants such as ozone. 
The GARP family transcription factors GOLDEN 2-LIKE1 (GLK1) and GLK2 have known
functions in chloroplast development. Here, we show that Arabidopsis thaliana (A.
thaliana) plants expressing the chimeric repressors for GLK1 and -2 (GLK1/2-SRDX)
exhibited a closed-stomata phenotype and strong tolerance to ozone. By contrast, 
plants that overexpress GLK1/2 exhibited an open-stomata phenotype and higher
sensitivity to ozone. The plants expressing GLK1-SRDX had reduced expression of
the genes for inwardly rectifying K(+) (K(+) in) channels and reduced K(+) in
channel activity. Abscisic acid treatment did not affect the stomatal phenotype
of 35S:GLK1/2-SRDX plants or the transcriptional activity for K(+) in channel
gene, indicating that GLK1/2 act independently of abscisic acid signaling. Our
results indicate that GLK1/2 positively regulate the expression of genes for K(+)
in channels and promote stomatal opening. Because the chimeric GLK1-SRDX
repressor driven by a guard cell-specific promoter induced a closed-stomata
phenotype without affecting chloroplast development in mesophyll cells,
modulating GLK1/2 activity may provide an effective tool to control stomatal
movements and thus to confer resistance to air pollutants.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1513093113 
PMCID: PMC4839443
PMID: 27035938  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


113. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Apr 12;113(15):E2180-8. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1515941113. Epub 2016 Mar 21.

Representation of spontaneous movement by dopaminergic neurons is cell-type
selective and disrupted in parkinsonism.

Dodson PD(1), Dreyer JK(2), Jennings KA(3), Syed EC(4), Wade-Martins R(5), Cragg 
SJ(5), Bolam JP(6), Magill PJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Medical Research Council Brain Network Dynamics Unit, Department of
Pharmacology, University of Oxford, Oxford OX1 3QT, United Kingdom; Oxford
Parkinson's Disease Centre, University of Oxford, Oxford OX1 3QX, United Kingdom;
paul.dodson@pharm.ox.ac.uk peter.magill@pharm.ox.ac.uk. (2)Department of
Neuroscience and Pharmacology, University of Copenhagen, 2200 Copenhagen,
Denmark; (3)Department of Physiology, Anatomy and Genetics, University of Oxford,
Oxford OX1 3QX, United Kingdom. (4)Medical Research Council Brain Network
Dynamics Unit, Department of Pharmacology, University of Oxford, Oxford OX1 3QT, 
United Kingdom; (5)Oxford Parkinson's Disease Centre, University of Oxford,
Oxford OX1 3QX, United Kingdom; Department of Physiology, Anatomy and Genetics,
University of Oxford, Oxford OX1 3QX, United Kingdom. (6)Medical Research Council
Brain Network Dynamics Unit, Department of Pharmacology, University of Oxford,
Oxford OX1 3QT, United Kingdom; Oxford Parkinson's Disease Centre, University of 
Oxford, Oxford OX1 3QX, United Kingdom;

Midbrain dopaminergic neurons are essential for appropriate voluntary movement,
as epitomized by the cardinal motor impairments arising in Parkinson's disease.
Understanding the basis of such motor control requires understanding how the
firing of different types of dopaminergic neuron relates to movement and how this
activity is deciphered in target structures such as the striatum. By recording
and labeling individual neurons in behaving mice, we show that the representation
of brief spontaneous movements in the firing of identified midbrain dopaminergic 
neurons is cell-type selective. Most dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra
pars compacta (SNc), but not in ventral tegmental area or substantia nigra pars
lateralis, consistently represented the onset of spontaneous movements with a
pause in their firing. Computational modeling revealed that the movement-related 
firing of these dopaminergic neurons can manifest as rapid and robust
fluctuations in striatal dopamine concentration and receptor activity. The exact 
nature of the movement-related signaling in the striatum depended on the type of 
dopaminergic neuron providing inputs, the striatal region innervated, and the
type of dopamine receptor expressed by striatal neurons. Importantly, in aged
mice harboring a genetic burden relevant for human Parkinson's disease, the
precise movement-related firing of SNc dopaminergic neurons and the resultant
striatal dopamine signaling were lost. These data show that distinct dopaminergic
cell types differentially encode spontaneous movement and elucidate how
dysregulation of their firing in early Parkinsonism can impair their effector
circuits.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1515941113 
PMCID: PMC4839395
PMID: 27001837  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]

